2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The Stewards Document 43
To The Team Manager, Date 02 November 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 13:33
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 40) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 11:31
Session Sprint
Fact The driver was above the minimum time at VSC End.
InfringementBreach of Article 56.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision 5 second time penalty imposed after the Sprint.
1 penalty point (total of 7 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, timing, telemetry evidence.
Article 56.5 states in part “All cars must also be above this minimum time when the
FIA light panels change to green.” The driver was 0.63 seconds below the minimum
time at VSC End when the FIA light panels changed to green. This indicates a
sporting advantage gained under VSC. The driver explained that as he was awaiting
VSC to end and he got the notification that he was below the minimum time, he
attempted to correct the error but failed to do so by the point that the panels turned
green. This is a breach and the standard penalty is applied for the advantage gained
at that time.
The net effect of this put the driver ahead of where he was at the start of the VSC
and not as a result of the car in front falling back.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu
Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti
The Stewards