2024 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
20 - 22 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 28
To The Team Manager, Date 21 September 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 20:47
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 25), summoned
(document 27) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 18:26
Session Practice 3
Fact Failed to follow the procedures in TD 003N.
InfringementBreach of Article 30.5 (a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (Scuderia Ferrari) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 16 (Charles Leclerc) and
reviewed video footage and technical data supplied by the Technical Delegate.
The Team Representative of Ferrari, admitted that the team failed to follow the
instructions laid out in Technical Directive 003N, point 2, which specifies that a tyre
may be used more than once in a single session, as well as the procedures that must
be followed if the team wishes to make adjustments to the tyres such as reducing tyre
pressures, which is permitted, but requires that first, tyre temperatures must be
obtained and all of this must be done in the presence of a FIA Representative.
These procedures were not followed, which is a breach of Art 30.5a of the FIA F1
Sporting Regulations. The Stewards note that this was during a Free Practice
session. In accordance with similar operational tyre infringements in the past, the
Stewards issue a fine of €5,000.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Paul Ng
The Stewards
