2024 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 April 2024
From The Stewards Document 75
To The Team Manager, Date 21 April 2024
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 19:48
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 62) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 15:22
Session Race
Fact Unsafe incident during a pit stop.
InfringementBreach of Article 3.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (BWT Alpine F1 Team) is fined €10,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 0 (Pierre Gasly), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team radio and in-
car video evidence and determined that the driver of Car 10 was given the green light
to exit his pit box.
However, the right rear tyre had not been properly fitted. The electronic systems that
monitor if a tyre was properly fitted did not pick that up. In addition, a team member
incorrectly clicked the button to release the car, despite the tyre not being fitted
properly. As soon as the team realised the problem, they stopped the car, and
prevented the car from leaving the pit box. In all of this, a team member fell backwards
and was lightly injured. The team member was able to continue with his duties for the
rest of the race.
It was clear to us that the driver was not at fault. He was given the green light and he
released the clutch and moved the car forward. However, he immediately stopped the
car when the light turned red.
We determined that the team was wholly responsible for what transpired. We
accordingly imposed a fine of €10,000 for not ensuring that the car complied with the
conditions of eligibility and safety during the race.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Zheng Honghai
The Stewards