2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 62
To The Team Manager, Date 04 May 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:08
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 44) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 12:27
Session Sprint
Fact Alleged unsportsmanlike behaviour.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 12.2.1.L. of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards spoke to the driver, the team representative and reviewed video
evidence of Car 20 in relation to the three separate incidents where Car 20 left the
track and gained a lasting advantage. Each of those infringements attracted a 10
second time penalty.
The Stewards wanted to examine the circumstances under which the second and
third instances of leaving the track and gaining an advantage were done especially in
the context of an on track battle with Car 44.
We were also aware of the impact that these infringements potentially had on the time
gaps to the cars in front, in particular Car 20’s teammate in Car 27.
The Stewards were made aware of a media interview that the driver of Car 20 gave
immediately after the session where he was quoted as saying among other things:
“I started using these stupid tactics, which I don’t like doing... But at the end of the
day, I did my job as a team player…Nico scored points because I got that gap for him.
..”
During the hearing the driver confirmed that these comments were accurately
reported.
We therefore wanted to investigate if the driver of Car 20 was deliberately flouting the
regulations to gain an advantage for his team or his teammate and if so, whether
such conduct would be an infringement of Article 12.2.1.L of the FIA International
Sporting Code.
We had a lengthy hearing with the driver of Car 20 and the team representative to
understand their perspective on what happened.
The driver candidly explained that he thought that he was entitled to race with Car 44
in the manner that he did and also that he was willing to accept what he considered to
be standard penalties that would have been imposed on him for any infringements
that occurred while he was battling for position.
He was also of the view that building a gap between himself and the cars ahead was
perfectly within the regulations and it was not uncommon for a driver to seek to assist
his teammate in the course of a race by doing so.
He did not at any point in time think that what he was doing was wrong or that it was in
any way unsportsmanlike.
He highlighted that the Stewards would typically not increase the severity of the
penalties for repeat offences.
We considered the matter and found as follows:
1. The standard for establishing unsportsmanlike behaviour must undoubtedly be high.
2. In circumstances such as this one, there must be clear evidence of an intention to
behave in a manner that can be said to be unsportsmanlike as a finding of
unsportsmanlike behaviour is serious.
3. While we disagreed with the way in which Car 20 was driven today, in particular,
the repeated infringements from leaving the track, we do not think that the actions
reached the level of unsportsmanlike behaviour.
Having said that, moving forward, the Stewards will need to consider if, in appropriate
situations, especially in the case of repeat infringements, the penalties to be applied
for each infringement need to be increased to discourage scenarios such as those
that we found today. This is something that we will raise explicitly with the FIA and the
Stewarding team.
We accordingly take no further action on the present summons.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Andrew Mallalieu
Vitantonio Liuzzi Dennis Dean
The Stewards