2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 81
To The Team Manager, Date 05 May 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:08
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:46
Session Race
Fact Collision between Car 20 and Car 2 at turn 3.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision 10 second time penalty.
2 penalty points (total of 10 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team radio
and in-car video evidence and determined that Car 20 was attempting to pass Car 2
at Turn 1 and then again on the outside at Turn 2 and finally collided with Car 2 at
Turn 3.
Per the Driving Standards Guidelines, in order for Car 20 to be given room for an
overtaking attempt on the outside, Car 20 needed to have the front axle at least
alongside the front axle of the other car at the apex of Turn 2.
It was clear that Car 20 did not have its front axle in that position such that it was
entitled to room in that corner. Further, if this is looked at purely as an overtaking on
the inside of Turn 3, Car 20 would also not have had the right to the corner, by the
standards for an inside overtake.
Even if this was viewed as a sequence of corners or a chicane, the decision remains
the same. Per the guidelines, priority will be given to the first corner and if you do not
have the right to be given room, then you do not get the benefit for the next corner.
Car 20 was therefore wholly to blame for the collision that occurred.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Andrew Mallalieu
Vitantonio Liuzzi Dennis Dean
The Stewards