2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 03 May 2024
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 20:00
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 25) and
heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the
following:
No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 16:55
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Failure to wear helmets by team personnel during the pit stop.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 34.13 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video evidence and
determined that team personnel carried out work on Car 44’s front wing while it was in
its pit stop position during the sprint qualifying session, and were not wearing the
required protective gear.
This was in breach of Article 34.13 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
However, as we were examining the conduct of the team in relation to this
infringement (which was reported to us by Race Control), it came to our attention that
a number of other teams had engaged in similar work without helmets and/or without
eye protection during the session either within the pit stop position or in close
proximity to it.
Certainly, those that were working on the car within the pit stop positions would also
have been in breach of Article 34.13 (for example by touching the car or jacking up
the car).
Indeed, those slightly outside of their pit stop position may not been in breach of the
above article but the distinction, from a safety perspective (which is the likely purpose
for this rule), was not obvious to us.
Furthermore, it appears to be the established practice to jack the car up, while
blowers are used to cool the brakes, within the pit stop position to bring the car back
into the garage. That too, read strictly, could be in breach of the above regulations.
So, in these circumstances, penalising one team, where all or nearly all the teams
may potentially have been in breach of this article in some form or the other would not
serve a useful purpose.
We accordingly took no further action. However, we request the FIA to consider
whether changes need to be made to either the current practices during
Qualifying/Sprint Qualifying or the regulations themselves.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Andrew Mallalieu
Vitantonio Liuzzi Dennis Dean
The Stewards