2024 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 July 2024
From The Stewards Document 35
To The Team Manager, Date 06 July 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 17:30
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 30) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 14 - Fernando Alonso
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 15:17
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 14 was worked on in the Fast Lane.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No penalty is applied.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video and in-car
video evidence.
Prior to the re-start of Q1, Car 14 drove from its Garage and its front left wheel was
placed in the Fast Lane. According to the Race Director’s Notes Item 11, this by
definition places the car in the Fast Lane. Article 34.4 specifies that except for some
specific exceptions which do not apply in this case, it is only permitted to work on a
car in the inner lane.
Video evidence clearly shows team members placing a jack under the rear of Car 14
and moving its location. This is deemed to be working on the car.
However it appeared from video evidence that it is common practice for team
members to move cars when in the Fast Lane under a red flag situation, for a variety
of reasons and the regulations are currently silent on this matter.
In this particular case the action of the team did not delay the session, impede
another car nor gain any sporting advantage.
Accordingly the Stewards determine to not apply a penalty.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matthew Selley
Enrique Bernoldi Ian Watson
The Stewards