2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 41
To The Team Manager, Date 14 September 2024
Williams Racing
Time 20:52
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 31) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 23 - Alexander Albon
Competitor Williams Racing
Time 16:58
Session Qualifying
Fact Alleged released in an unsafe condition and the discard of the cooling equipment.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.14 c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (Williams Racing) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 23 (Alexander Albon) and
reviewed video, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The car was released from the garage with the engine cooling fan still attached. The
car was stopped at the first opportunity, at the pit exit, and subsequently the driver
removed the fan and threw it overboard where it was subsequently retrieved by a
marshal. Albon the drove away and entered the pits without setting an additional time.
The general expectation when released in an unsafe condition is to simply stop at the
next safe location. Throwing parts overboard, requiring a marshal to retrieve them is
not normal. However, in this case the actions of the team and driver prevented the
qualifying runs of any other driver from being affected, as a yellow flag would have
had to be shown if the car had remained where it was, or had driven to a run-off, and
in this unique case, throwing the part overboard avoided the yellow flag. As was
discussed in the hearing, this turns out to be “least worst option.”
Had any of these actions affected other competitors, or created a further unsafe
situation the Stewards would have taken further action. However, in this case we
impose the usual penalty for a release in an unsafe condition of €5,000.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards