2024 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 July 2024
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 06 July 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 17:26
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 29) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 16:45
Session Qualifying
Fact Crossed the Pit Exit line at 15:10:32 while the red light was on.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision A penalty of a Reprimand is imposed.
This is the driver’s 2nd reprimand of the season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 18 (Lance Stroll), team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
Car 18 pulled out of its pit which was located at the far end of the Pit Lane, and 0.8
seconds prior to crossing the Pit Exit line, the red light was displayed.
In mitigation of penalty the Stewards considered the short time available for the driver
to react, the fact that the track was red-flagged anyway so no possible advantage
could be gained from Car 18 completing the lap, and the fact that the Pit Lane was
wet and the Car was on slick tyres, so possibly would have stopped over the exit line.
However it is the driver’s responsibility to always comply with the signal at the Pit Exit
therefore the penalty of a Reprimand is imposed. This is the minimum penalty
recommended in the Penalty Guidelines.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matthew Selley
Enrique Bernoldi Ian Watson
The Stewards