2024 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
06 - 08 December 2024
From The Stewards Document 24
To The Team Manager, Date 06 December 2024
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 15:43
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 16 & 17)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 13:40
Session Practice 1
Fact Alleged Impeding of Car 4 in turn 16.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), the driver of Car 4
(Lando Norris), team representatives and reviewed video, team radio and in-car
video evidence.
The driver of Car 44 was driving slowly on the left side of the track approaching turn
16, this being the racing line. At the same time another car was entering the pit lane
and therefore occupied the right side of the track.
Car 4 was closing in at high speed and was impacted by Car 44 sitting on the racing
line into Turn 16 to prepare his next lap. However, the inside line would have been
open and there was space for Car 4 to overtake on the inside. The driver of Car 4
chose not to move to the inside as he was not sure if Car 44 would close the gap to
start a flying lap.
The Stewards conclude that the incident was kind of a misunderstanding between the
drivers involved, but does not meet the threshold of being considered as an
unnecessary impeding in Free Practice.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Mohammed Al Hashmi
The Stewards