2024 MONACO GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 May 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 24 May 2024
Time 10:51
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Monaco Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
steeper and deeper rear wing of greater chord and
Circuit specific - camber fulfilling the permitted volume to extract
1 Rear Wing Enlarged upper rear wing by chord and camber
Balance Range most load for a given air speed, a high downforce
rear wing
same for the lower rear wing, increased camber to
Circuit specific -
2 Beam Wing Enlarged beam wing by chord and camber extract maximum load at a given air speed, a high
Balance Range
downforce beam or lower rear wing.
The low air speed of Monaco combined with the
Circuit specific -
3 Front Corner Enlarged inlet and exit ducting for the brake cooling high brake energy necessitates enlarged inlet and
Cooling Range
exit ducting, both lying inbaord of the wheel.
The lock requirement for Monaco necessitates a
4 Front Corner Reliability Frtont top wishbone fairing notch for steering
small notch in the upper front wishbone fairing.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Increasing the camber of the wing elements
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing Increase camber upper rear wing increases local downforce and drag; wing is track
Drag Range
specific and suited to Monaco.
Increasing the camber of the beam wing elements
Circuit specific -
2 Rear Wing Increase camber beam wing increases local downforce and drag; wing is track
Drag Range
specific and suited to Monaco.
Increasing the local inboard floor volume increases
Performance -
3 Floor Body Increased floor inboard leading edge volume the local flow acceleration in this area which in turn
Local Load
generates more load.
Increasing inboard flap chord has increased the
Performance - Larger chord inboard flap and redistribution of main balance range of the front wing; redistribution of
4 Front Wing
Flow Conditioning plane chord the outboard element chord has altered tip
vorticity and improved tyre wake control.

SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Introduction of more loaded Top and Lower Rear
Wing main and flap profiles. This update is track
Circuit specific - Higher Downforce Top Rear Wing and Lower Rear
1 Rear Wing specific, with the aim to cover the low aerodynamic
Drag Range Wing designs
efficiency requirements of the Monaco street
circuit.
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
A new, more loaded Rear Wing Assembly has been
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing More loaded Rear Wing Assembly designed with the aim of efficiently increasing
Drag Range
Downforce at high downforce circuits.
In conjuction with the more loaded Rear Wing
Circuit specific - Assembly, a new Beamwing has been designed,
2 Beam Wing More loaded Beam Wing Assembly.
Drag Range which supports to increase the overall efficiency of
the assembly.

ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The more aggressive wing increases local suction
Performance - There is a new rear wing with more aggressive
1 Rear Wing for increased loads, and is acceptable due to the
Local Load geometry.
lower efficiency of this circuit geometry.
The more aggressive wing increases local suction
Performance - There is a new beam wing with more aggressive
2 Beam Wing for increased loads, and is acceptable due to the
Local Load geometry.
lower efficiency of this circuit geometry.

BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
This flap is higher loaded to increase the amount of
Circuit specific - Front wing flap option with more aggressive
1 Front Wing front downforce in proportion to the higher level
Balance Range cambered profiles.
rear wings typically run at this track.
This modification gives greater road wheel angle for
New trackrod fairing and supports to suit Monaco. the same steering wheel angle compared to the
Front Performance -
2 Outboard mounting position which is further standard outboard trackrod position. The higher
Suspension Mechanical Setup
rearward. maximum road wheel angle is required due to the
specific circuit characteristics.
The top rear wing features more load with the sole
Circuit specific - More loaded top rear wing main plane suited for aim of tackling the high downforce nature of the
3 Rear Wing
Drag Range track characteristics and high downforce nature. Circuit de Monaco and offering optimal downforce
level for best lap-time.
The double element beam wing features more load
In conjunction with the aforementioned top rear
Circuit specific - with the sole aim of tackling the high downforce
4 Beam Wing wing update, the beam wing has more load with
Drag Range nature of the Circuit de Monaco and offering
double element style.
optimal downforce level for best lap-time.
To provide a more outwashing flow out of the
Performance - Realignment of the halo vanes on either side of the
5 Halo cockpit which aims to improve the flow to the rear
Flow Conditioning cockpit, behind the Halo.
wing and rear beam wing assembly.

WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The wing is simply larger than others we have run
A new high downforce rear wing is available at this
Circuit specific - so far this year. As a result it delivers more
1 Rear Wing event. The upper elements have a larger area,
Drag Range downforce and drag, which is appropriate for a
particularly at the outboard region of the mainplane.
circuit like Monaco.
A new high downforce beam wing accompanies the
new upper elements. The difference are subtle but The beam wing generates some local load courtesy
Circuit specific - are designed to compliment the increased loading of of the updated geoemtry. It also supports the larger
2 Beam Wing
Drag Range the upper elements. It has a longer chord and a upper elements and contributes to the overal
higher angle of attack than the medium downforce downforce delivery of the rear wing system.
version that has run previously.
Larger front brake duct scoop exits are available to
The larger duct exit draws more air flow through
increase front brake and caliper cooing if required.
Circuit specific - the duct to increase the cooling of the front brake
3 Front Corner Alternative internal ducting options are also
Cooling Range and caliper assembly. The internal duct distributes
available to trade disc and caliper cooling as
the cooling flow to the disc and caliper.
required.

VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The updates improve the flow attachment on the
Front Performance - The profiles of the suspension members have been suspension legs, which sit in a region of high
1
Suspension Flow Conditioning modified and adjusted in incidence. upwash from the front wing and can be prone to
separation.
The duct modifications allow additional airflow
Circuit specific -
2 Front Corner The front brake cooling duct has been enlarged. through the brake cooling system, increasing the
Cooling Range
rate at which heat is removed from the brakes.
A max-downforce 'full box' rear wing configuration -
Circuit specific - The camber & indidence of the upper wing profiles is the increase in camber & incidence of the section
3 Rear Wing
Drag Range increased. generates additional downforce at the expense of a
higher overall drag level.
As with the Upper Rear Wing, this makes use of the
available height in the legality box to create a
Circuit specific - A 2-element beam wing with high incidence &
4 Beam Wing highly-loaded beam wing suitable for high-
Drag Range camber.
downforce circuits, whilst aerodynamically
supporting the upper wing.

STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
This new concept of rear wing, with a single pylon
compared to the previous, double-pylon setup, will
Performance -
1 Rear Wing Single pylon rear wing improve aero efficiency in Monaco, but also form the
Flow Conditioning
basis of future developments of the rear wing for
other races.
The new design of the endplate, with detached tips,
Rear Wing Circuit specific -
2 Detached tips of the RW end plate allows us to maximise efficiency in the very perculiar
Endplate Drag Range
circumstances of Monaco.
The new beam wing, introduced alongside our new
Circuit specific - RW concept, is designed to provide maximum load
3 Beam Wing New beat wing design
Drag Range and answer the Monaco circuit's specific
aerodynamics requirements.
This update, which changes the surface of the front
Front Circuit specific -
4 Redesigned front suspension covers suspension covers, is a track-specific update aimed at
Suspension Drag Range
maximising aero performance in Monaco.
The new front brake ducts answer Monaco's specific
Circuit specific - cooling needs, while also improving the overall aero
5 Front Corner Redesigned front brake duct
Cooling Range flow from the front corners towards the rear of the
car.

MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Front Trackrod shroud modification to allow the steering Necessary tweak to the Trackrod shroud to fulfil the
1 Reliability
Suspension lock required. lock angles requirements of this circuit.
The change consists in a removal of the brake duct
Circuit specific -
2 Front Corner Brake duct exit modification exit scoop conditioner, allowing a higher brake
Cooling Range
cooling level, required in this circuit.
New design of a cooling louver layout. This option
Cooling Circuit specific -
3 Wider cooling louvers apertures changes only the louvers keeping the engine cover
Louvres Cooling Range
unchanged, allowing higher cooling levels.
Due to the low efficiency requirements in
Montecarlo, increasing downforce is almost always
Circuit specific -
4 Rear Wing More cambered Upper Rear Wing a lap time gain. This Wing pushes the geometry to
Drag Range
the limit of possible achievable load inside the
allowed rule box.
More pushed lower beam for the same reason as
Circuit specific -
5 Beam Wing More cambered Lower Rear Wing for the Upper Rear Wing, main aim is to increase
Drag Range
downforce to improve lap time.
