2024 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 March 2024
From The Stewards Document 36
To The Team Manager, Date 23 March 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:00
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 32 & 33)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:03
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 11 unnecessarily impeding Car 27 in Turn 13.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 1 (Sergio Perez), the driver of Car 2​​ 7
(Nico Hulkenberg), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Hulkenberg was on a fast lap when he approached turn 13. Perez, who was on an out
lap was at the apex of the turn and Hulkenberg had to leave the racing line to drive
around him. Hulkenberg was forced to lift the throttle early and brake early for that
corner.
In reviewing the audio from Perez’ car, the Stewards observed that the team was
focused on the car in front of Perez that had just slowed, and did not give Perez a
warning that Hulkenberg was behind him until one second before Hulkenberg arrived,
and significantly too late to avoid impeding Hulkenberg.
While the Stewards appreciate the dynamic situation facing the team and driver
during the Q1 session, which was described in the hearing, the Stewards find that
Perez “Unnecessarily Impeded” Hulkenberg and issue a three grid place drop,
consistent with previous cases.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Matthew Selley
The Stewards