2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 69
To The Team Manager, Date 15 September 2024
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 19:34
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 60) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 16:37
Session Race
Fact Overtaking under Virtual Safety Car Conditions after the chequered flag.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 h) of the International Sporting Code and/or Article 56.6 of
the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 10 (Pierre Gasly), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data.
The driver overtook other cars after the chequered flag, but while a VSC was still
being displayed, following the crash at Turn 2. The driver was reminded that while
passing after the chequered flag is not unusual, it is prohibited in the case of yellows,
safety car or virtual safety car procedures. While the drivers were aware of where
the incident was, they could not have known if emergency equipment or marshals
were being dispatched onto the track, and so have to proceed with caution.
The Stewards are aware that this has happened earlier this season and was not
noticed at the time. We are therefore warning the driver concerned, along with all
other competitors. Further breaches may incur significant penalties.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards