2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 31
To All Teams, All Officials Date 02 November 2024
Time 07:59
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Sao Paulo Grand Prix - Post-Sprint Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 – 03 November 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 02 November 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-SPRINT PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should stop on the grid in the vicinity of the
Pit Wall gate in front of the McLaren garages where they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time. At the sole
discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the fastest driver may also
be permitted in the designated area.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews will take place on the grid. The
interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
1
2024 São Paulo Grand Prix Parc Ferme – Sprint
0 1 …
Podium
SCALES
Remaining finishers
parked here
Pit Wall
3rd
TV RF
Cameraman
1st
2nd
Version 1 – 1 November 2024
2
Waiting
Area
Photographers
Photographers
McLaren 11
…