2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The Stewards Document 83
To The Team Manager, Date 03 November 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:14
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 73) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 14:14
Session Race
Fact The driver moved the car while the marshals were attempting recovery.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), team representative
and reviewed video, and in-car video evidence.
The driver crashed on his own. The marshals were quickly on the scene to recover
the car. The driver removed the steering wheel indicating to the marshals that he was
abandoning the car. The team then informed the driver that they thought the car was
safe to continue. The driver replaced the steering wheel while the marshals had
started to feed the recovery loop through the roll hoop of the car.
The driver admitted that he was not aware that the marshals had commenced the
recovery procedure. The marshals recognizing that the driver was going to attempt to
restart aborted the recovery attempt just as the driver drove the car away. The driver
admitted that he did not know that the marshals had started the recovery procedure
and accepted that removing the steering wheel was a clear indication of his intention
to abandon the car.
A potentially dangerous situation was created that was avoidable by the driver solely.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu
Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti
The Stewards