2024 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 46
To The Team Manager, Date 29 June 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 19:40
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 38) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:14
Session Qualifying
Fact Pit lane incident.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5 b) of the International Sporting Code and
non-compliance with the Race Director’s Event Note (item 11, document 16).
Decision Team reprimand.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 27 (Nico Hulkenberg), team
representative and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The Stewards determine that at the time Car 27 entered the fast lane there was no
suitable gap to blend in. However, it is noted that due to the fact that the team garage
is at the end of the pit lane and in a position in which cars regularly slow down to make
a gap to cars in front, it is difficult for the team to judge when there is a suitable gap to
send the car to the fast lane. In this particular case there appeared to be a suitable
gap at the moment the car was released from the garage, but the gap disappeared
because cars were queuing in front of the team garage. This is considered as
mitigating circumstances and therefore only a reprimand to the team is imposed.
The Stewards also note that the onus of blending into the fast lane at the right time
cannot be put on the driver in this case as he was directed by a team member.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Matthew Selley
Johnny Herbert Wilhelm Singer
The Stewards