2024 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 May 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 10
To All Teams, All Officials Date 17 May 2024
Time 10:59
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
More load has been extracted from the flap by
extending the chord length. In changing the moving
Performance - Endplate leading edge repositioned and profiles 3 flap geometry, the fixed flap elements into the
1 Front Wing
Local Load and 4, flap elements redesigned to extend the chord. nosebox had to be revised as the parts cannot be
treated in a modular fashion. The endplate leading
edge revison improves the stability in yaw.
From CFD research the shedding edges under the
Performance - Shedding edges of the forward portion of the edge
2 Floor Edge wing were re-positoned to extract locally more load
Local Load wing re-positioned.
whilst maintianing the flow stability criteria.
More efficient rear brake cooling has been achieved
Circuit specific - rear wheel bodywork revised to improve the brake by re-profiling the exit duct geometry for a given
3 Rear Corner
Cooling Range cooling exit condition. intake. By consequence the local winglets adjacent
to the exit were re-optimised.
Again from CFD, the upper surface of the floor has
Performance - the upper surface ahead of the edge wing has been
4 Floor Body been revised to improve the onset flow to parts
Flow Conditioning slightly lowered
downstream improving the load generated.
Consequentially to the flap elements revision, the
Performance - fairings on the nosebox revised to meet the revised nosebox fairings were revised to meet and blend
5 Nose
Local Load flap elements and the camera stubs revised the nosebox junction. Camera stubs have been
revised to be better suited to the local flow.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Improves flow quality to the rear of the floor, which
Performance -
1 Floor Fences Small modification to fence alignment. in turn improves diffuser and rear load throughout
Flow Conditioning
the ride height range.
The tunnel volume change alters the trajectory of
Performance -
2 Floor Body Modification to the floor tunnel volume. the fence and floor edge vortex systems, the result
Local Load
being increased local load.
Increasing the length of the flap tip shedding edge
Circuit specific -
3 Rear Wing Modification to upper wing tip shedding detail. results in more local load and upper wing efficiency
Drag Range
suited to this circuit.
Biplaning the beam wing improves its local
Circuit specific -
4 Beam Wing New biplane beam wing. efficiency and also how it interacts with the upper
Drag Range
wing and the diffuser.
Improved design of the internal duct feeding the
Circuit specific -
5 Front Corner Improved internal brake ducting. front brake disc resulting in reduced pressure drop
Cooling Range
and increased mass flow.

SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Minor front wing update with revised flap and tip
Performance - Updated flap profile, adjuster position and tip loadings, aiming at improving performance and
1 Front Wing
Flow Conditioning details efficiency across the polar range. This goes in
conjunction with the rest of the car upgrades
Not specific to the Imola circuit requirements, the
Performance - Swept flap tip and enlarged mainplane to endplate
2 Rear Wing rear wing tip / mainplane roll junction have been re-
Drag reduction roll junction
designed in order to improve the overall efficiency
The new bodywork features a new sidepod and inlet
that improves flow quality over the floor edge. A
Performance - New P-shape inlet, forward top lip and updated
3 Sidepod Inlet new cockpit device has also been implemented on
Flow Conditioning cockpit device
the side of the halo to manage better losses
travelling downstream
The engine cover volume has been reduced,
Coke/Engine Performance - improving flow quality towards the back of the car.
4 Reduced volume and reworked cooling exit
Cover Flow Conditioning Cooling exit topology evolves but main modulation
remains via gills arrangement.
In conjunction with the bodywork evolution, a
Performance - revised floor edge is introduced, turning the sidepod
5 Floor Edge Revised rearward slot and trailing edge volume
Flow Conditioning onset benefits into better flow energy delivery to
the diffuser
Working together with the rest of the upgrade and
Performance - Updated channel profile and outboard diffuser the upstream changes, the diffuser expansion has
6 Diffuser
Local Load expansion been re-optimized and offers a load increase in
return
Taking the benefits of the bodywork changes, rear
suspension top wishbone fairing have been further
Rear Performance -
7 Reprofiled rear top wishbone triangle fairing developed, with positive interaction on rear wing
Suspension Local Load
and rear corner performance, resulting in a small
load increase
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
A new, more loaded Rear Wing Assembly has been
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing More loaded Rear Wing Assembly designed with the aim of efficiently increasing
Drag Range
Downforce suitable for low isochronal circuits.
In conjuction with the more loaded Rear Wing
Circuit specific - Assembly, a new Beamwing has been designed,
2 Beam Wing More loaded Beam Wing Assembly.
Drag Range which supports to increase the overall efficiency of
the assembly.

ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Central section of the wing has a revised front view
The changes create a revised loading distribution on
Performance - shape and incidence to the first element along with
1 Front Wing the lower surface of the wing to improve
Local Load some changes to the slot gap separator
performance through the operating range.
arrangement.
The changes to the nose are cosmetic at the tip to
Performance - The tip of the nose has some volume added to suit
2 Nose suit the revised front wing surfaces and slot gap
Local Load the FW changes.
separator layout.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - The main body of the floor has evolved slightly with
3 Floor Body floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load the fences and floor edge.
lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - The fences are redistributed across the LE of the
4 Floor Fences floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load floor with revised curvature.
lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - Small changes to the details of the floor edge wing
5 Floor Edge floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load and the main floor inboard of this.
lower surface and hence performance.
The changes to the shape modify the expansion in
Performance - The diffuser is a slightly modified shape with revised
6 Diffuser the diffuser to improve flow characteristics and the
Local Load top surface.
load generated on the surfaces.
This is a cooling option and reduces the massflow
Coke/Engine Performance - Revised central trim to the centre of the engine
7 allowed to exit in this area, use will depend on the
Cover Local Load cover, smaller than the previous trimmed version.
cooling requirements of the event.
The rear suspension and corner work together to
Rear Performance - The external fairings are revised, but the structural
8 improve the flow around the rear wheel to
Suspension Local Load components are not changed.
generate load and increase car performance
The rear suspension and corner work together to
Performance - Reduced inlet area and a revised inboard face with a
9 Rear Corner improve the flow around the rear wheel to
Local Load more distinct exit and revised vanes.
generate load and increase car performance
BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
This reduces floor deflection at high-speed, which
Performance - Floor flank 'stay' will be tested on Friday that
1 Floor Edge affects the flow around the rear tyres. This will be
Flow Conditioning increases floor stiffness in front of the rear tyre.
tested on one car on Friday
WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The update only delivers a mass reduction, which is
There are no geometric differences to the
done without compromising the aerodynamic
1 Floor Body Reliability aerodynamic surfaces but the laminate has been
performance of the floor. Reduced weight improves
changed to reduce the mass of the floor.
the performance in all regards.
VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The extension of the floor fences, as well the
Performance - Floor fences forward extension, changes to forward redefined surface in the front part, increases
1 Floor Fences
Flow Conditioning floor volume downforce and improves the aerodynamic efficiency
of the package.
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Aim of this geometrical change is to influence the
Front Wing Performance - flow impacting the front tyre, by reducing the wake
1 Re-shaped FW Endplate
Endplate Flow Conditioning of the tyre itself and re-directing high energy flow
towards the rear end of the car.
The top wishbone fairings were reshaped to be
Rear Performance -
2 Re-shaped top wishbone fairings more compliant with the incoming flow and with
Suspension Flow Conditioning
the updated brake drum devices.
The FIA prescribed lower winglet cluster was re-
Performance -
3 Rear Corner Lower winglet layout positioned to better work in conjunction with the
Local Load
diffuser and also to extract more local load.
