2024 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
30 August - 01 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 37
To The Team Manager, Date 31 August 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 15:48
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 32) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 13:23
Session Practice 3
Fact Car 18 did not follow the Race Director’s Event Notes regarding the escape road
instructions at Turns 4/5.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 18 (Lance Stroll), the team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The driver explained that it would have been “challenging” at the speed he was
travelling, to make a significant (at that speed) turn to the right (then the left), to get
around the newly-installed green bollard mentioned in the event notes version 3.
The team representative also made the point that this was the first time the drivers
had seen the bollard as it was added overnight and that there was some confusion
following the drivers’ briefing as to where the bollard would be located.
The driver also stated that in trying to get around the bollard a driver could well be
turning into the path of another car that had gone straight ahead at Turn 4. He
suggested that the location of the bollard should be reconsidered or, in fact, the
bollard could be removed.
Accordingly, whilst the Stewards agree that a procedure is necessary to ensure the
safe re-entry to the track at this location, in this case we decide to take no further
action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Valerio Brizzolari
The Stewards