2024 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
29 February - 02 March 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 4
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 February 2024
Time 10:00
Title Car Display Procedure
Description Car Display Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Bahrain Grand Prix - Car Presentation Display Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 B G P
AHRAIN RAND RIX
29 February – 02 March 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 29 February 2024
CAR PRESENTATION AND DISPLAY PROCEDURES
In addition to the requirements set out in Article 19 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, please
note the following procedures for the Car Presentation and Display at this Competition:
The Car Presentation submissions are listed below.
Between 13:00 and 14:00 on Thursday, one car from each team must be positioned in the same way as
previous events, with the other car positioned and available for viewing inside your garage. If only one
car will carry the major aerodynamic and bodywork components and assemblies that have not been run
at a previous Competition or TCC and are intended to be run at the Competition, this car must be the
one displayed to media.
The car outside may be used for pit stop practice but when no pit stop practice is taking place the car
must return to the same position. Teams selected for the presentation may not carry out pit stop practice
during their allocated presentation timeslot.
At any Competition where it is raining during this presentation, we would ask you to leave the cars in
position and use easy ups.
There must be enough space around the entire car on display to allow people to move safely and
unhindered – for the avoidance of doubt, this means that any team equipment / infrastructure must not
be positioned within 2m of the cars.
Photographers must stay in the fast lane of the pit lane in order to avoid overcrowding around
the cars.
The presentations will take place at the below timings:
• 13:05 – Car 1
• 13:25 – Car 10
• 13:45 – Car 63
Each team that is selected must have the technical representative indicated previously to the FIA
available at these times.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
1
Car Presentation – Bahrain Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Load has beeen increased as pressure gradient
Performance - Re-optimised wing elements to better attain the
1 Front Wing targets were met, so this wing has more load than
Local Load pressure gradients and more stable load.
last years whilst maintaing the stability.
Revised to fit the local changes in the front wing
profiles and then tapered to meet the front
Performance - Better fairing to the front wing elements and a
2 Nose bulkhead whislt observing the taper requirements
Flow Conditioning better pressure control along the length.
to better condition the flow for bodywork
downstreeam
For greater efficiency, the inlet shape has been
revised to better utilise the avaialble pressure to
Circuit specific - A better inlet shape for the pressure field available
3 Sidepod Inlet feed the radiators or primary heat exchangers
Cooling Range to supply the primary heat exchangers
downstream enabling the external profile to be less
detrimental to the floor edge detail.
Taking inspiration from competitor cars, shapes
Performance - More aggressive geometry in the FEW to attain
4 Floor Edge creating more local load were derived whilst
Local Load locally greater pressure differences
mainaining adequate stability.
Placed to exploit naturally lower pressues exit areas
Attaining adequate ranges of exit areas to operate in
Cooling Circuit specific - with a range of mass flows for different circuit types
5 the coolest and warmest ambinent conditions
Louvres Cooling Range and ambient condiitons to maintain system
expected.
temperatures within the operational limits.
Better flow to the rear wing enables more efficient
Coke/Engine Performance - profiled to improve pressure upstream of the rear
6 load to be generated for a given profile of rear
Cover Flow Conditioning wing.
wing.
Again taking inspiration from competitor designs,
Front Wing Performance -
7 Less loss from the endplate roll-over for more load the endplate roll over has been better optimised for
Endplate Local Load
reduced local loss and thus more load.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Detached forward element improves flow to the
Performance - Detached forward element from nose and reduced rear of the car, improving floor performance. The
1 Front Wing
Flow Conditioning forth element chord inboard. small chord flap locally offloads the front wing,
improving flow to the rear of the car.
Improves flow quality to the radiator, and also
Performance -
2 Sidepod Inlet Triangular inlet. improves flow to the rear of the floor and hence
Flow Conditioning
increases floor load.
Changes generate increased local load which in turn
Performance - increases mass flow under the floor; flow quality to
3 Floor Body Change in the fence camber and floor tunnel profile.
Local Load the diffuser improved which improves rear floor
load.
Improves flow quality under the upper rear wing,
Coke/Engine Performance -
4 Softened engine cover shoulder. which in turn improves upper wing load - also
Cover Flow Conditioning
better management of cooling flow trajectory.
Improved profiling of both beam wing elements has
Performance - improved their pressure distribution and how they
5 Beam Wing Improved section profiling.
Local Load work together and with the diffuser - resulting in
better wing efficiency.
Cut-out and reprofiling cleans up the tip flow
Performance -
6 Rear Wing Increased flap tip cut-out and reprofiling. structures, which in turn improves tip and wing
Local Load
efficiency without losing wing load.

SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
This evolution is improving the flow in the undercut
The sidepod inlet has been reworked and raised,
Performance - and interactions with the floor edge and the back of
1 Sidepod Inlet working in conjunction with the redesigned sidepod
Flow Conditioning the car, whilst retaining the necessary cooling
and coke undercut
capacity.
The engine cover has been inflated, with a different The cooling exit has been more biased towards the
Coke/Engine Performance - cooling exit topology and a more prominent central central section of the bodywork, still maintaining
2
Cover Flow Conditioning exit. High and wide sidepod shoulder is a visible the needed modulation by using louvres, in order to
difference compared to the 2023 car increase the car overall efficiency
In conjunction with the re-optimized flow features
Rear suspension and rear corner have been adapted
coming from the front end (coke / sidepod), the
Performance - to suit the bodywork development, offering better
3 Rear Corner regression of the the suspension arms helps to
Flow Conditioning inboard and outboard integration, as well as a re-
deliver additional energy to the RBD furnitures that
optimized rear corner winglet system
have been consequently re-optimzed as a system.

MCLAREN F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Completely reshaped Sidepod Inlet and Chassis
Performance - integration with the aim to improve Flow structure
1 Sidepod Inlet Modified Sidepod Inlet
Flow Conditioning management in all conditions as well as cooling
performance.
In conjunction with the Sidepod Inlet, the Bodywork
Coke/Engine Performance -
2 New Bodywork Shape has been redesigned to complement the changes as
Cover Flow Conditioning
well improve interaction with the floor.
The floor edge has been redesigned to improve
Performance - both floor loading as well as flow conditioning,
3 Floor Edge Floor Edge Modification
Flow Conditioning resulting from an improved interaction with the
modified Bodywork.
Both Rear Wing and Beam wing have been
Performance -
Rear Wing New Rear Wing Assembly completely redesigned, resulting a gain of efficiency
4 Local Load
at a drag level suitable for this circuit.

ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO COGNIZANT F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The revised mounting position improves the loading
Performance - Front wing mounted to the nose on the second
1 Front Wing distribution of the front wing and interaction with
Local Load element.
surrounding parts for better performance.
The revised mounting position improves the loading
Performance - Shorter nose compared to AMR23, to suit FW
2 Nose distribution of the front wing and interaction with
Local Load mounting change described above.
surrounding parts for better performance.
Part of general re-optimisation of the floor
Performance - The leading edge of the floor is higher and other geometry to improve the loading and how this is
3 Floor Body
Local Load subtle change in the shape of the main floor. generated aiming to improve performance through
the operating envelope.
Increased forward floor load local to the change in
4 Performance -
Floor Edge The floor edge wing has a shorter chord. geometry which also improves the loading on the
Local Load
downstream geometry.
Continuation of the 2023 concept to manage the
Performance -
5 Sidepod Inlet The sidepod inlet is raised. flow to the rear of the car whilst maintaining
Flow Conditioning
sufficient flow into the inlet to cool the car.
The undercut works in conjunction with the raised
Coke/Engine Performance - Undercut depth has increased, and the exit of the inlet to improve flow to the rear of the car. The exit
6
Cover Flow Conditioning bodywork has a revised profile. of the bodywork is shaped to manage the position
of the internal cooling flow downstream.
The geometry of the structures defines the
Rear Performance - Suspension member fairings to shroud the revised
7 fundamental layout of the surfaces which are then
Suspension Mechanical Setup structural layout.
optimised to the surrounding flowfield.
The rear suspension layout change required
Performance - Rear brake duct modified to suit the revised rear different geometry for local loading on the corner
8 Rear Corner
Local Load suspension layout from our supplier. geometry and it's effect on the wake of the rear
tyre.
Change made to improve the performance of the
Performance - Inboard both elements now mount to the crash
9 Beam Wing inboard region of the wing, removing the centre
Local Load structure.
portion of the second element.

BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Performance - The front wing has revised span-wise loading to
1 Front Wing It is a completely revised front wing for 2024.
Flow Conditioning improve air flow further down the car.
The new floor edge geometry affects flow
Performance -
2 Floor Edge The floor edges contain revised edge details. underneath the car to the diffuser for more
Flow Conditioning
performance.
This is a new part since the pre-season test. A front
Performance - Additional front wing load to allow higher aero
3 Front Wing wing gurney has been produced and made available
Local Load balance if required.
on the trailing edge of the front wing flap.

WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The front wing geometry works in conjunction with
The whole front wing geometry is new for 2024.
Performance - the new nosebox, front suspension and floor
1 Front Wing Chord lengths, aerofoil profiles and connection to
Local Load geometries to generate local load and to setup the
nosebox are all updated.
flow for the rest of the car.
The nose geometry works in conjunction with the
Performance - The nosebox has a new profile and the detail around new front wing, front suspension and floor
2 Nose
Local Load the connection to the front wing is new for FW46. geometries to generate local load and to setup the
flow for the rest of the car.
The layout of the front suspension is updated. Most The front suspension outboard elements play an
Front Performance - notably, the trackrod position is changed and the important role in working alongside the front wing,
3
Suspension Flow Conditioning front top wishbone is now split into two separate nose, chassis side panel and HALO/mirror setup to
legs. help condition the flow to the sidepods and floor.
Whilst being critically important to the
The layout of the front suspension is updated. Most aerodynamic behaviour of the car, the front
Front Performance - notably, the trackrod position is changed and the suspension must also deliver a suitable car balance
4
Suspension Mechanical Setup front top wishbone is now split into two separate and steering feedback to the driver. Some of the
legs. mechanical details of the installation are updated
accordingly for 2024.
The floor body generates local load, conditions the
The entire floor geometry is updated for 2024. The
flow ahead of the diffuser and rear wing. It also
details are primarily on the underside of the floor
Performance - supports the car as it touches the ground on the
5 Floor Body but the upper surface and floor edge (See below) are
Local Load straights and must survive the impacts to ensure
also updated to make the most of the high energy
that the car remains legal and robust throughout a
flow.
race weekend.
These devices condition the flow entetering the
Performance - The floor fences have been updated in position and
6 Floor Fences forward floor helping to produce local floor load
Flow Conditioning curvature for FW46.
and set up the flow ahead of the diffuser.
The floor edge has been substantilly updated for
2024. More elaborate and aggressive geometry is The floor edge produces local load and contributes
Performance -
7 Floor Edge present for 2024. This captures the learning from to the overall flow field ahead of the rear brake
Local Load
FW45 and makes the most of the improved flow duct furniture.
quality around the front of the car and the floor.
The sidepod inlet ensures good flow to the cooling
Performance - The sidepod inlet is new for 2024 and features an
8 Sidepod Inlet system and helps condition the flow down the side
Flow Conditioning extended lip.
of the car.
Performance - The diffuser geometry is modified for 2024 to The diffuser creates as much local load as possible
9 Diffuser
Local Load maximise the load from the onset flow. by modifying the air volume.
The coke and engine cover geometry is new for 2024
and features and aggressive slide from the front of
The louvres adjust the total mass flow rate through
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - the cooling inlet to the rear corner. A variety of
10 the cooling system and allow the system to be
Cover Cooling Range louvres panels and centreline exits provide
tuned to circuit and environmental characteristics.
opportunity to adjust the flow through the cooling
system.
The beam wing is part of the overall rear wing
assembly. For 2024 there are two elements to the Provides options to quickly and efficiently trade
Circuit specific -
11 Beam Wing beam wing, which helps adjust the drag and downforce and drag to suit the track and prevailing
Drag Range
downforce for each circuit. The forward element in conditions.
particular will be adjusted as required.
The rear wing assembly is new for FW46 and
Generates significant but efficient downforce and
Performance - features the familiar disconnect between the flap
12 Rear Wing drag. Offers a range of upper gurney flaps as well as
Local Load element and the endplate. The whole geometry is
lower wing elements to tune downforce and drag.
new with updated profiles, chord and span.
The rear suspension legs are an important aero flow
The FW46 features rear suspension geometry used control surface and help increase the performance
Rear Performance - by MGP in 2023. The outboard geometry is very of the brake duct furniture, diffuser and rear wing.
13
Suspension Mechanical Setup similar to the FW45 but offers a small update to the They also determins the tyre presentation, which is
leg positions and interface with the upright. critical for overall performance and tyre
management.
The winglets help manage the flow around the rear
Performance - The rear corner geoemtry is updated for 2024 with
14 Rear Corner tyre and the brake ducts offers efficient cooling for
Local Load revised winglets and updated brake cooling flow.
the brake disc and caliper.

VISA CASH APP RB F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
1
The AT05 nose / front wing junctions have been
Performance - The revised nose / front wing junctions generate
Nose modified. The geometry of the nose has also been
Local Load more local load reduce losses
extensively modified
2
The inboard sections of the FW have been modified
in sympathy with the revised nose geometry. The The inboard front wing changes work in harmony
Performance -
Front Wing first element of the mainplane has been extensively with the nose geometry above to deliver higher
Local Load
revised with elements two, three and four remaining local loading.
closely similar to AT04.
3 The front suspension has been extensively The pull-rod element, locating high on the upright
redesigned and a pull-rod element now controls outboard, requires a different front brake duct
Front Performance -
front wheel movement compared to a push-rod on scoop. The inboard front suspension has been
Suspension Flow Conditioning
AT04. The trackrod remains in a low position ahead revised to work with the new nose geometry
of the front lower wishbone, similar to AT04. described above.
4 The front brake duct assembly has been redesigned
The scoop provides similar cooling flow to front
to accommodate the new pull-rod suspension. The
Performance - brake discs and calipers but with a cleaner
Front Corner scoop geometry itself is closely similar to AT04 but
Flow Conditioning interaction with the outboard suspension elements,
with greater separation now to the front top
providing a better downstream flowfield.
wishbone and pull-rod elements.
5
Performance - The floor has been redesigned with updates to the All of the underfloor changes achieve greater and
Floor Body
Local Load fences as well as floor roof surfaces. cleaner loading downstream.
6 The floor edge wing philosophy of AT04 carries over
The floor edge features a similar floor edge wing to
Performance - but with further development to extract more local
Floor Edge AT04 but modified to suit latest developments on
Local Load load from this device, also aided by the upstream
the main floor itself.
flow improvements described above.
7
Performance - The diffuser has modifications based on upstream The diffuser changes generate increased local load
Diffuser
Local Load flow changes for improved rear axle grip.
8
The revised inlet geometry provides better quality
Performance - The sidepod inlet has been raised and the upper
Sidepod Inlet flow to the sidepod radiators for an efficiency
Flow Conditioning leading edge regressed.
improvement of the cooling system.
9 The coke line has been pulled inboard compared to
Coke/Engine Performance - AT04. The upper sidepod has also increased in height The bodywork provides a better flowfield to the
Cover Flow Conditioning with the upper engine cover surfaces dropping rear of the car.
towards the rear floor.
10 The size and position of these continue to work well
on AT05 to allow greater flow through the radiator
Cooling Performance - cores as required based on circuit demands and
Bodywork cooling louvres are very similar to AT04.
Louvres Flow Conditioning ambient conditions whilst minimising any adverse
impact on rear downforce from the low energy
cooling air that exits these devices.
11
Performance - Rear wing profiles have been redesigned to improve
Rear Wing Improved efficient load generation
Local Load Cp profiles

STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The change to pull-rod was mostly dictated by
Front Performance - Switched the front suspension geometry from push- aerodynamic, not mechanical reasons. It allows to
1
Suspension Flow Conditioning rod to pull-rod maximise the efficiency of the aero package
throughout the whole car.
Influenced by the changes at the front of the car
(see above), we took an aggressive approach to
Coke/Engine Performance -
2 Aggressive redesign of engine cover and sidepods redesigning the engine cover, the sidepod and the
Cover Flow Conditioning
coke area to maximise downforce and aero
efficiency.
As part of our redesign for 2024, we took a novel
Performance - approach to the floor with some solutions, mostly
3 Floor Body Complete redesign of the floor
Flow Conditioning in the main body part, aimed at generating
increased downforce.

MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
1
The revised Endplate design allows an improved
Front Wing Performance - flow conditioning, obtained with a new side vane
Revised Front Wing Endplate and Side Vane
Endplate Flow Conditioning design and revised lower slot layout, allowing to
better control the front wheel wake.
2
The new Front Wing allows to increase the overall
Performance - Optimized profile design, compliant with new front
Front Wing car load with improved flow conditioning impacting
Flow Conditioning suspensions
the front suspension and the rest of the car.
3
The inlet is optimized for cooling performance. The
Performance - The Sidepod Inlet is much higher compared to last
Sidepod Inlet wide-open area below favours flow delivery to the
Flow Conditioning year, allowing a larger undercut
back end of the car.
4 The new design allows an increased flow feed of
Performance - New Floor concept, with higher leading edge and floor and diffuser, permitting to generate more
Floor Body
Local Load new tunnel design downforce and changing the balance between
upper and lower floor flows.
5
The fences are optimized for the new floor design,
Performance - The new floor body required a complete re-design of
Floor Fences now generating local load and conditioning the flow
Local Load the floor fences
impacting the floor edge and the diffuser.
6 The new design optimizes the different impacting
Performance - New floor and bodywork required a re-design of the flow and allows to gain performance by increased
Floor Edge
Local Load floor edge extraction and by the generated vortexes travelling
downstream.
7 The new engine cover features additional centre
Coke/Engine Performance - cooling exits, allowing to reduce the louvers on the
New design of the engine cover
Cover Flow Conditioning sidepods, thus limiting the low energy flow
impacting the rear wing elements.
8
The new kinematics required new suspension
Front Performance -
New Front Suspension design and updated covers member fairings, designed for efficiency and
Suspension Flow Conditioning
improved flow conditioning downstream.
9 The new internal ducting improves brake cooling
Performance - performance. The external shape is designed to be
Front Corner Updated internal and external design
Flow Conditioning compliant with the new suspensions, aiming to
influence front wheel wake.
10 The new floor and bodywork design imply different
Rear Performance - flow impacting on the rear suspensions: the new
Updated rear suspension with revised fairing design
Suspension Flow Conditioning farings aim for efficiency and conditioning of the
corner flow.
11 The new internal design aims to improve brake
Performance - cooling performance. Furthermore, the devices on
Rear Corner Revised internal and external design
Local Load the inboard face aim to improve local load and
diffuser extraction.
