2024 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 June 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 25
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 June 2024
Time 09:15
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Austrian Grand Prix - Post-Sprint Procedure.pdf
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
28 – 30 June 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 29 June 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-SPRINT PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should stop on the grid in the vicinity of grid
position 10 where they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no driver
physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded
photographer of the fastest driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews will take place on the grid. The
interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
1
2024 Austrian Grand Prix
Parc Ferme – Sprint
WALKWAY 5 FIA GARAGES
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
PPooddiiuumm
FIA SCALES
Remaining cars
F parked here
e
n
c
e
PPPhhhoootttooogggrrraaappphhheeerrrsss
Pit Wall Pit Wall
BACKDROP
2nd
1st
TTVV RRFF
3rd
CCaammeerraammaann
Grid Position 10
PPPhhhoootttooogggrrraaappphhheeerrrsss
Version 1 – 27 June 2024