2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 29
To The Team Manager, Date 14 September 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 15:55
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 28) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 13:20
Session Practice 3
Fact Alleged failing to slow for yellow flags.
InfringementBreach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.5 b) of the International Sporting Code and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Event Notes (item 1, document 21).
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 16 (Charles Leclerc), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio
and in-car video evidence.
As the driver of Car 16, Leclerc, passed turn 2 he could see Car 10, Gasly, ahead of
him. Approaching turn 3 it was not clear to Leclerc, or the in-car video, where Gasly
was relative to the corner. Leclerc passed the marshalling signal board prior to turn 3
and no signal is given. Confirmed by telemetry and video, just past his braking point,
Gasly comes clearly into the view of the in-car camera on the right of the runoff at
turn 3, and shortly afterwards a single waved yellow flag is shown from an elevated
position to the right of the runoff just before Leclerc turns into the corner.
Confirmed by telemetry and by the driver in the hearing, at this point he was fully
under braking and any further braking would have resulted in an accident. The driver
further explained that while he saw movement in his peripheral vision, he was looking
to the apex of the corner and did not immediately recognize that it was a yellow flag. In
reviewing the video the Stewards consider this to be reasonable.
Once past the corner, the green marshalling panel was clearly visible as was a clear
track all the way to the following corner. However, the regulations state that the yellow
sector extends to the point of the green flag. Telemetry indicates that Leclerc applied
the throttle in a similar manner to other fast laps and prior to the green flag and the
mini-sector timing indicates that this was his fastest time through that sector up to that
point in the session, although increasing grip and decreasing car weights have an
influence on this.
The Stewards consider that the driver took all reasonable actions throughout the
incident, except that given that he was in a yellow zone past the apex, and even
though the track was visibly clear and a green was visible shortly after, he should
have varied his throttle application out of caution and in order to fully comply with the
intent of the regulation to noticeably reduce speed in that sector.
As no competitive advantage was gained, and at no time was any action of the driver
in any way dangerous, and especially in light of the timing and visibility of the flag,
being when the driver was fully under braking, the Stewards consider this as strong
mitigation and therefore, in light of this being free-practice order a driving reprimand.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards