2024 MEXICO CITY GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 October 2024
From The Stewards Document 50
To The Team Manager, Date 27 October 2024
Williams Racing
Time 16:47
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 43 - Franco Colapinto
Competitor Williams Racing
Time 15:37
Session Race
Fact Car 43 collided with Car 30 at the exit of Turn 2.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 (d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision 10 second time penalty
(10 seconds added to elapsed Race time).
2 penalty points (total of 2 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, CCTV, and In-
Car video.
Colapinto was attempting to overtake on the outside of Lawson at Turn 1. He was not
quite fully alongside at the apex and through the exit and was thus not “entitled” to
racing room at the exit. Lawson defended aggressively through to the exit of turn 1,
but stayed on the track and left just enough room for Colapinto to remain on track
from the exit of Turn 1, through to Turn 2, although ultimately Colapinto did leave the
track.
Both cars were on a compromised line approaching Turn 2, Colapinto more so.
Lawson gave Colapinto room at the apex of Turn 2. Colapinto stayed on power which
ultimately forced him wide at the exit of turn 2 and caused him to collide with Lawson’s
front wing.
While the Stewards consider most of this sequence to be fair racing, the fact that
Colapinto forced the issue when he was not able to complete the pass through either
corner meant that he was predominantly at fault for the collision.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Loïc Bacquelaine
Johnny Herbert Alfonso Oros Trigueros
The Stewards