2024 HUNGARIAN GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 July 2024
From The Stewards Document 42
To The Team Manager, Date 21 July 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:05
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 37 & 38)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:30
Session Race
Fact Turn 1 incident between Cars 1 and 44 at 16:30.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International
Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), the driver of Car 44
(Lewis Hamilton), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, and in-car video evidence.
On the approach to turn 1, both Car 44 and Car 1 overtook Car 23. Car 44 returned
to the racing line before the braking zone and commenced to turn into turn 1.
Car 1 approached the turn faster than on previous laps (due to DRS) and braked at
the same point as previously. The driver of Car 1 argued that Car 44 was changing
direction under braking. The driver of Car 44 stated that he was simply following his
normal racing line (which was confirmed by examination of video and telemetry
evidence of previous laps).
It was clear that Car 1 locked up both front wheels on the approach to turn 1 prior to
any impact occurring but missing the normal cornering line for a typical overtaking
manoeuvre.
The driver of Car 44 stated that this was a racing incident, whilst the driver of Car 1
argued that this was a case of changing direction under braking.
The Stewards do not consider this to be a typical case of “changing direction under
braking” although it is our determination that the driver of Car 44 could have done
more to avoid the collision.
Accordingly we determine that no driver was predominantly to blame and decide to
take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi István Móni
The Stewards