2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The Stewards Document 28
To The Team Manager, Date 01 November 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:27
Having been delegated, by the Stewards of the 2024 Mexico City Grand Prix, the authority in
accordance with Article 11.9.3.w of the FIA International Sporting Code, and having received the
delegated authority from the Mexico ASN (OMDAI) to the Brazilian ASN steward, to investigate a
report from the FIA Media Delegate in relation to the language used by the the driver of Car 16
(Charles Leclerc) during the Drivers’ Post-Race Press Conference on Sunday 27 October 2024.
The Stewards summoned (document 20) and heard from the driver and team representative, have
considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Session Driver’s Post-Race Press Conference
Fact Language during the FIA Post-Race Drivers’ Press Conference during the 2024
Mexico City Grand Prix.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 k) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision The driver is fined €10,000, €5,000 of which is suspended on condition that there is
no further breach of a similar nature within the next 12 months.
Reason The Stewards received a report from the FIA Media Delegate summons and heard
from the driver of Car 16 (Charles Leclerc), team representative and reviewed the
written transcript.
It is the policy of the FIA to ensure that language used in its public forums, such as
press conferences, meets generally accepted standards for all audiences and
broadcasts. In particular this is true of statements made by participants in the World
Championships and thus being role models both inside and outside the sport. This is
clear in the regulations of the FIA and has been reinforced through previous cases
brought before the Stewards in FIA Formula One World Championship.
The Stewards reviewed the transcript of the Post-Race Drivers’ Press Conference
in Mexico and found that Charles Leclerc, the driver of car 16, used language in
response to a somewhat leading question asking him “what did you say to yourself” in
relation to the significant moment towards the end of the race when Leclerc was
fighting to control the car at the exit of the last corner. In response Leclerc used
coarse language being the accurate recollection of what he thought to himself at the
time. Leclerc immediately realized his error and apologized.
Such language is not considered suitable for broadcast. This is “Misconduct” as
defined in Article 20 of the International Sporting Code, and is a breach of Article
12.2.1.k. The Stewards noted that the language was not directed at anyone or any
group and that Leclerc immediately apologised.
During the hearing Leclerc expressed his regret for his momentary lack of judgment
and shared that he understood his responsibility as a role model for the sport.
The Stewards considered the mitigation factor that Leclerc was immediately
apologetic. The Stewards while noting that the driver’s contrite behavior conclude that
a breach has occurred and a penalty is warranted. The Stewards do not consider that
this breach reached the same level as the most recent case and as such chose to
levy a fine of €10,000 with €5,000 suspended pending no repeat within 12 months.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu
Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti
The Stewards