2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November - 01 December
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 10
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 November 2024
Time 14:09
Title Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Qatar Grand Prix - Post-Sprint Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November – 01 December 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 29 November 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-SPRINT QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint Qualifying procedure requires the fastest driver to be interviewed once he has got out of
his car. We would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of SQ3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the boards from 1,2,3 in front of the FIA garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no driver
physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded
photographer of the fastest driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint Qualifying interview with the fastest driver only
will take place in the designated area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If the fastest driver is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure that he goes
directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interview the fastest driver will be led to the backdrop for a Pirelli Award photo
opportunity.
• The fastest driver will then conduct a pooled TV interview at the back of the FIA Garages. There will be
no Press Conference following the Sprint Qualifying.
• Drivers eliminated in SQ1 and SQ2, drivers classified from 2nd to 10th in SQ3 and drivers who did not
participate in SQ1 but are eligible to race must conduct a pooled TV interview immediately after they
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of the Sprint Qualifying in which they
participated. This will take place directly behind the FIA garage.
For drivers positioned outside the top three (3) at the end of Sprint Qualifying we would like to ask for your
co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• Any drivers who finished participating in the Sprint Qualifying sessions after SQ1 and SQ2 must proceed
to the FIA scales through the pit-lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The
drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the
FIA.
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team.
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars
without contact with any other person.
Please see the attached Sprint Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 Qatar Grand Prix Parc Ferme – Sprint Qualifying
RED BULL RACING FIA GARAGES FIA GARAGES
RACE CONTROL
05 04 01
Podium
Backdrop
FIA
Remaining cars
scales
2 nd parked here
st
1
TV RF
Cameraman
rd
3
Pit Wall Pit Wall
Version 1 – 29 November 2024
Waiting
area
srehpargotohP
Photographers