2024 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
20 - 22 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 35
To The Team Manager, Date 21 September 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 23:47
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 30) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 21:53
Session Qualifying
Fact Crossing the track without permission during Qualifying.
InfringementBreach of Article 26.7 b) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The driver is fined €25,000, €12,500 of which is suspended for the remainder of the
2024 season on condition that there is no further breach of a similar nature.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, and
information from the marshals.
After crashing during Q3 which caused a red flag, Carlos Sainz crossed the track and
then crossed the pit entry road. The Stewards examined video, questioned the
marshals and heard from the driver that he crossed without first obtaining permission
from a Marshal. The regulations are explicit that this is not permitted and is a
potentially very dangerous situation. Further, this was reinforced by the Race Director
in a previous drivers’ meeting.
The Stewards accept that Sainz thought that the track was clear because he was
after the pit entry and there was a red flag. However, there were still five cars
circulating and it was possible that one may make a mistake and not enter the pit lane,
or may have entered the pit lane faster than Sainz thought. Further, there were
potentially other vehicles entering the track that the driver had no knowledge of.
The Stewards compared this to other penalties that have been given recently, which
were given when the track was in race conditions, but under safety car and consider
that this is a somewhat less severe case, because of the red flag. Further, the
driver’s idea that because he was beyond the pit entry is another mitigating
circumstance. But in light of the explicit regulation reinforced in prior drivers’ meetings
the Stewards order the fine which is lower than previous penalties and order half to be
suspended for the remainder of the 2024 season, in light of the mitigating
circumstances.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Paul Ng
The Stewards