2024 MEXICO CITY GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 October 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 25 October 2024
Time 09:50
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Mexico City Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
Given the ambient conditions unique to this circuit,
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - RBR need a larger PU cooling exit and have chosen
1 Enlarged volume of the central topbody.
Cover Cooling Range to alter the central part of the topbody to achieve
the anticipated capacity.
Again, to cope with the brake energies and
Circuit specific -
2 Front Corner Enlarged volume of the exit duct ambient conditions, a larger exit duct has been
Cooling Range
prepared to enhance the cooling capacity.

Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Specific to the requirements of the Mexico City
Cooling Circuit specific - circuit, these new bodywork exit louvres are
1 Additional bodywork exit louvres
Louvres Cooling Range extending the top end of the engine cooling
capacity, at the expense of car efficiency

Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
To provide sufficient power unit cooling in the
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - particular ambient conditions observed in Mexico,
1 High Cooling Sidepod and Engine Cover
Cover Cooling Range the sidepod and engine cover have been revised to
increase air flow through the cooling ducts.
As part of the high cooling sidepod design, the
Cooling Circuit specific -
2 High Cooling Louvres cooling louvre area has been increased, enabling
Louvres Cooling Range
the increase in air flow required.
The floor design has been heavily revised, with
Performance -
3 Floor Body Revised Floor geometric changes in all areas, resulting in an
Local Load
increase of aerodynamic load across all conditions.

Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Williams Racing
Updated Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works (min
Primary reason for update
component previous version 20, max 100 words)
The trimmed chord increases the efficiency of the
Optional trailing edge trim is available for
overall rear wing assembly. Drag and downforce are
Circuit specific - Drag Range the RLW. This is simply a reduction in chord
1 Beam Wing
both reduced but in a way that may be efficient in
length
Mexico.
To cover the increased PU cooling requirements in
Larger bodywork with larger central exit Mexico that result from the altitude, a larger bodywork
Coke/Engine
Circuit specific - Cooling Range
2
area. exit is available to increase the air flow through the
Cover
coolers.

Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
Improves the quality of the vortex formation on the
Performance -
1 Floor Fences Modifications to the camber of the floor fences. fences, reducing the aerodynamic losses
Flow Conditioning
downstream.
Performance - The aerodynamic load generated along the edge of
2 Floor Edge The floor edge wing profiles have been modified.
Local Load the floor is increased.
Opening up the back of the engine cover reduces
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - the pressure behind the radiators to increase the
3 Enlarged cooling exit at rear of bodywork.
Cover Cooling Range flow through them, providing additional engine
cooling.
Further reduction in radiator back-pressure possible
Cooling Circuit specific -
4 Optional louvre panel on top deck of bodywork. with additional openings on the top of the
Louvres Cooling Range
sidepods.

Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Mexico City Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.