2024 MONACO GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 38
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:15
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 33), summoned
(document 34) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 18:44
Session Qualifying
Fact Non-compliant rear wing element.
InfringementBreach of Article 3.10.10 h) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations.
Decision Car 27 is disqualified from the Qualifying classification.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representatives of MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Car 27 (Nico Hulkenberg), the FIA Technical Delegate, the FIA Single Seater
Director and the FIA Single Seater Technical Director in relation to a report received
from the Technical Delegate (Document 33) as to non-compliance with Article
3.10.10 h of the Formula One Technical Regulations (“Technical Regulations”).
The Technical Delegate discovered on examination that the uppermost rear wing
element adjustable positions exceeded the maximum allowed under Article 3.10.10.h
of the Technical Regulations of 85mm.
The team explained that this was the consequence of an inadvertent error on their
part in setting the wing flap gap. The wing used was a new design that was used for
the first time in Monaco. The old design was set to be compliant with the regulations
with the largest gap measured from the centre of the wing. Under the new design, the
largest gap was at the extremities of the wing but the team had not trained its
mechanics to set the gap per the new design, resulting in the non-compliance.
The duty to comply strictly with the Technical Regulations rests at all times with the
Competitor. The team suggested that there was no performance advantage gained
by the non-compliance. Article 1.3.3 of the International Sporting Code makes it clear
that this is irrelevant.
The team was candid in admitting its error. The wing was otherwise compliant with the
Technical Regulations and the FIA technical team confirmed that they were satisfied
with the team’s explanation for the error.
Given the admitted breach of the regulations, we disqualified Car 27 from the
Qualifying classification.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Matthew Selley
Derek Warwick Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards