2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 17
To The Team Manager, Date 13 September 2024
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 15 & 16)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 17:58
Session Practice 2
Fact Car 55 allegedly impeding Car 11 in turn 13.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of Car 11
(Sergio Perez), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Impeding in free practice is not normally investigated by the Stewards unless it is
considered dangerous. This was investigated because the driver of Car 11, Perez,
had to lift and move to the right at a high-speed section of the track and could have
been potentially dangerous.
In the hearing the driver of Car 55, Sainz, admitted that he had seen Perez behind
him, and the Stewards noted that his team did warn him, but because he was
distracted by a variety of alarms on the car, he misjudged the closing speed. The
Stewards noted that he did start to avoid the car behind, but fractionally late. Perez
stated that while he did have to lift, he had good visibility of the incident throughout and
that it did not end up being particularly dangerous.
Therefore the Stewards issue a Warning to Sainz in accordance with the agreed
guidelines.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards