2024 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 July 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 05 July 2024
Time 09:56
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 British Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – British Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Optimising the upper floor surface further based
Performance - Subtle re-profiling of the surface above and behind upon research and comparison with full scale
1 Floor Body
Flow Conditioning the lower SIS tube results to get more energy thus presure to the floor
edge wing.
Given higher pressure upstream, the edge wing
Performance - Minor re-profiling of the edge wing with attendant detail has been subtley changed to add more
2 Floor Edge
Local Load detail camber deriving more load whilst respecting the
necessity for flow stability.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Trimmed/ smaller chord flap, reduces front wing
Circuit specific -
Front Wing Trimmed front wing flap load to achieve sensible car balance if low
Balance Range
downforce rear wing is chosen to run.
1
Reducing local flap curvature reduces local flap load
Circuit specific -
Rear Wing Reprofiled flap and offloads the mainplane - results in a lower
Drag Range
downforce and lower drag upper wing.
2
Reducing the brake duct inlet and exit size reduces
Circuit specific -
Front Corner Smaller front brake duct inlet and exit the mass flow feeding and cooling the brake disc
Cooling Range
and calliper.
3
Better aligning the upper caketin lip to the local
Performance -
Rear Corner Upper lip realignment onset flow improves flow attachment through a
Local Load
range of conditions resulting in more local load.
4

SCUDERIA FERRARI
No updates submitted for this event.
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
In anticipation of higher isochronal circuits, a less
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing Lower Downforce Rear Wing loaded Rear Wing assembly is introduced for this
Drag Range
event, with the aim of reducing drag efficiently.
With the target to widen the operating range of the
Circuit specific - newly introduced low downforce wing, a high load
2 Beam Wing High load Beamwing
Drag Range Beam Wing has been designed to trade downforce
and drag efficiently.
With the target to increase the operating range of
Circuit specific - the newly introduced low downforce wing, a mid
3 Beam Wing Mid load Beamwing
Drag Range load Beam Wing has been designed to trade
downforce and drag efficiently.
With the target to increase the operating range of
Circuit specific - the newly introduced low downforce wing, a low
4 Beam Wing Low load Beamwing
Drag Range load Beam Wing has been designed to trade
downforce and drag efficiently.
The new Bodywork features an additional cooling
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - exit, allowing an increase in cooling massflow,
5 Additional Cooling Exit
Cover Cooling Range resulting in both an increase in overall cooling
capacity as well as efficiency.

ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update work
component for update version
Changing the twist distribution of the wing modifies
Performance - Local Modified twist distribution of the wing elements the spanwise loading to improve the overall
1 Front Wing
Load changing the front view shape. performance of the wing and downstream
interactions.
The twin elements offer an improvement in
Performance - Local The small element on the outboard face of the lip has alignment and downwash for improved wheel wake
2 Rear Corner
Load been replaced with a twin arrangement. management increasing the load on surrounding
geometry.

BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
WILLIAMS RACING
No updates submitted for this event.
VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The airflow around the Halo influences the
Performance - The winglet on the top of the Halo will be removed downstream areas of the car including the rear
1 Halo
Flow Conditioning in some configurations. wing, making removing it relevant in certain
circumstances.
STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The different trim of the floor fences further
Performance – optimises the flow of air in this crucial area of the
1 Floor Fences An additional, alternative trim of the floor fences
Flow Conditioning car, improving the overall flow and aero efficiency of
the package.
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update work
component for update version
The different expansion increases the floor suction
Performance - Local
1 Floor Body Modification of the expansion with this new floor and therefore the underfloor mass-flow, resulting in
Load
overall more load coming from the floor.
The new floor geometry requires a different
Performance - Flow
2 Floor Fences Alignment of the floor fences alignment of the front floor fences, as the direction of
Conditioning
the incoming floor changes with the floor expansion.
The new floor body has a different expansion and
therefore requires an adaptation of the floor edge
Performance - Local The new floor body required a modification of the floor
3 Floor Edge wing, which is now more coherent with floor body
Load edge as well
and is able to extract more flow, resulting in a local
load increase.
This geometry allows to deliver a cleaner floe to the
Performance - Flow
4 Sidepod Inlet Updated Inlet geometry, now with a longer higher lip rear end of the car, resulting in an overall
Conditioning
performance increase.
The new Sidepod Inlet geometry required changes
that protrude quite backwards on the sidepod, which
Coke/Engine Performance - Flow The updated Inlet geometry required a minor revision
5 was therefore updated accordingly. The new sidepod
Cover Conditioning of the sidepod
is now able to accommodate some top cooling gills as
well.
The updated rear stay of the mirror has changed
Performance - Flow The new Sidepod Inlet required a new rear stay of the position and was optimized to condition the top
6 Mirror Stay
Conditioning mirror sidepod flow in order to increase the load of the rear
end of the car.
Performance - Local Different position and trim of the lower quadruplane The new floor required to optimize the flow around
7 Rear Corner
Load (FIA geometry) the rear tyres as well. The improved incoming flow on
the rear corner allows an increased expansion,
resulting in a higher local load.