2024 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
07 - 09 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 36
To The Team Manager, Date 08 June 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:20
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 31) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:25
Session Qualifying
Fact Pit Lane incident.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 34.8 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and
Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5 b) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The team stated in the hearing that they assumed Car 1 had crossed the solid white
line separating the fast lane from the working lane when it was released from the
garage and therefore followed the procedure outlined in Article 34.8 to leave the pit
lane in the order the cars arrived there. The Stewards determine that this assumption
was inaccurate as no wheel of Car 1 had crossed the solid white line separating the
fast lane from the working lane. It is noted that the fast lane is demarcated as the lane
(marked by two solid white lines) closest to the pit wall. Any other white lines and/or
painted areas have no relevance in this context.
Given the fact that Car 1 was not in the fast lane at the start of the session, the
regulations and the Race Director’s Event Notes (item 11, document 29) only
required the driver to blend into the fast lane as soon as it is safe to do so, meaning
that if there is a suitable gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, and without
unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane. The Steward contend that these
requirements were fulfilled and take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Marcel Demers
The Stewards