2024 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 53
To The Team Manager, Date 29 June 2024
Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 21:40
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 48) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 22 - Yuki Tsunoda
Competitor Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 16:14
Session Qualifying
Fact Inappropriate comments made on team radio.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 k) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision The driver (Yuki Tsunoda) is fined €40,000 of which €20,000 is suspended for the
remainder of the 2024 season on condition that no infringement of a similar nature
occurs.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 22 (Yuki Tsunoda), team representative
and reviewed team radio evidence.
During Q1 when Car 22 was queuing in the fast lane and another car blended into the
fast lane ahead of him, the driver was heard to make a statement over team radio
using offensive language.
During the hearing the driver was very apologetic and explained that because English
is not his first language he was unaware until after the session what the meaning of
the words used is in the English language. He said that he was horrified when he
learned this. He contended that his understanding of the words was different, but
acknowledged that this should not be considered as an excuse for what he did.
The Stewards appreciate the honesty of the driver, but reinforce the fact the words
used are offensive and wholly inappropriate. To have used such words over a
platform that is available to the public amounted to misconduct as defined in Article 20
of the International Sporting Code. Considering the circumstances, the Stewards
determine that a severe fine is required, but also take into account the genuine
remorse of the driver and his offer to issue a public apology and for these reasons
decide to suspend part of the fine imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Matthew Selley
Johnny Herbert Wilhelm Singer
The Stewards