2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 42
To The Stewards Date 02 November 2024
Time 13:20
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the Sprint:
A vertical and angled rear wing deflection test was carried out on car number 16.
A rear wing upper flap deflection test was carried out on car number 16.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 77 and analysed during the Sprint.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 77 and analysed during the Sprint.
On the grid it was checked that all cars had fitted their tyres and the tyre heating blankets were
disconnected, when the “5-Minutes” signal was given.
On the grid the temperature of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked on car numbers
01, 11, 44, 16, 55, 81, 04 and 50.
On the grid the minimum tyre starting pressure of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked
on all cars.
After the Sprint:
The following cars were weighed:
Number Car Driver
01 Red Bull Racing Max Verstappen
Honda RBPT
11 Red Bull Racing Sergio Perez
Honda RBPT
63 Mercedes George Russell
44 Mercedes Lewis Hamilton
16 Ferrari Charles Leclerc
55 Ferrari Carlos Sainz
81 McLaren Mercedes Oscar Piastri
04 McLaren Mercedes Lando Norris
18 Aston Martin Aramco Lance Stroll
Mercedes
14 Aston Martin Aramco Fernando Alonso
Mercedes
31 Alpine Renault Esteban Ocon
10 Alpine Renault Pierre Gasly
23 Williams Mercedes Alexander Albon
43 Williams Mercedes Franco Colapinto
30 RB Honda RBPT Liam Lawson
22 RB Honda RBPT Yuki Tsunoda
77 Kick Sauber Ferrari Valtteri Bottas
24 Kick Sauber Ferrari Zhou Guanyu
20 Haas Ferrari Kevin
Magnussen
The following aerodynamic component or bodywork areas were checked on car number 10:
- Floor Body - TR Article 3.5.1
- Floor Fences - TR Article 3.5.2
- Floor Edge Wing - TR Article 3.5.3
- Bib - TR Article 3.5.4
- Nose - TR Article 3.6.1
- Forward Chassis - TR Article 3.6.2
- Mid Chassis - TR Article 3.6.3
- Mirror Housing - TR Article 3.6.4
- Sidepod - TR Article 3.7.1
- Coke Panel - TR Article 3.7.2
- Engine Cover - TR Article 3.7.3
- Tail - TR Article 3.8.1
- Front Wing Profiles - TR Article 3.9.1
- Front Wing Endplate body - TR Article 3.9.2
- Front Wing Tip - TR Article 3.9.3
- Front Wing Diveplane - TR Article 3.9.4
- Front Wing Endplate - TR Article 3.9.5
- Rear Wing Profiles - TR Article 3.10.1
- Pylons - TR Article 3.10.2
- Rear Wing Beam - TR Article 3.10.3
- Rear Wing Endplate Body - TR Article 3.10.4
- Rear Wing Tip - TR Article 3.10.5
- Rear Wing Endplate - TR Article 3.10.7
The fuel pressure of all cars during the Sprint was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the Sprint was checked on all cars.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The partial load fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature was checked on all cars.
The oil consumption was checked on all cars.
The exhaust fluid mass flow of all cars was checked.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The MGU-K use at the Sprint start was checked on all cars.
It was checked on all cars that the ES was not charged while the car was stationary in the pits.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the Sprint.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The brake temperature warnings were checked on all cars.
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
The Sprint start data of all cars have been checked.
Single clutch paddle use for the Sprint start has been checked on all cars.
It was checked that no car exceeded 80 km/h when leaving the formation grid prior to the start of the
Sprint.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash display configuration was not changed during Parc
Fermé.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during the Sprint were checked.
The tyres used by all drivers during the Sprint today have been checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 63.
The fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of all the fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been
approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 63.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
All car weights and the items checked were found to be in conformity with the 2024 FIA Formula One
Technical Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate