2024 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 31
To The Team Manager, Date 18 May 2024
Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 15:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 29 & 30)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 3 - Daniel Ricciardo
Competitor Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 13:31
Session Practice 3
Fact Incident between Cars 3 and 20 in turn 13.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 h) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision The competitor (Visa Cash App RB Formula One Team) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 3 (Daniel Ricciardo), the driver of Car 20
(Kevin Magnussen), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The Stewards usually do not investigate “impeding” during free practice sessions
unless they are considered dangerous or potentially dangerous. The incident between
Magnussen and Ricciardo was considered by the Stewards as being potentially
dangerous, in particular as Magnussen ended up driving into the grass at 225km/h.
This case is unusual in that it occurred after the checkered flag on the session. This
means it is not classically “impeding” as it did not prevent Magnussen from setting a
fast time. It is also therefore understandable that Ricciardo was driving slowly,
preparing for his practice start. It is also fully within the regulations for Magnussen to
be driving at speed, even after the checkered flag.
The Stewards considered the location of the incident, which was after the crest of the
hill leading up to Turn 14. There was no chance that Ricciardo was likely to see
Magnussen in time, and vice versa. Ricciardo was avoiding his teammate, Tsunoda,
who was also manoeuvring to prepare for his practice start. This meant that
Ricciardo was near the racing line at the time. It was also understood by the Stewards
that the situation was even more unusual due to the previous red flag, and the
resumption of the session giving some of the teams the ability to complete the lap,
and others not, but choosing to get the most information possible.
The Stewards have issued penalties for incidents during Free Practice sessions
previously, although those incidents were all prior to the checkered flag. Given the
circumstances, it was important for the team to give sufficient warning of a fast car
approaching, which they failed to do until Magnussen was at the scene. This failure
caused a potentially dangerous situation. The Stewards consider that there are a
number of mitigating circumstances, and that this situation is highly unusual, but that
nevertheless, the teams have a duty of care, even after the checkered flag.
Therefore, the Stewards issue a fine to the team, but in view of the mitigating
circumstances, a significantly reduced one from previous cases and no penalty to the
driver.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matthew Selley
Vitantonio Liuzzi Matteo Perini
The Stewards