2024 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 March 2024
From The Stewards Document 54
To The Team Manager, Date 24 March 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 19:48
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 47 & 48)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 14 - Fernando Alonso
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 16:21
Session Race
Fact Incident in Turns 6-7.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drive through penalty imposed after the Race. Converted to 20 seconds added to the
elapsed time in the race in accordance with Art. 54.3
3 penalty points (total of 3 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), the driver of Car 1​​ 4
(Fernando Alonso), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, telemetry, team radio, in-car video evidence and telemetry
supplied by both teams.
Car 63 crashed at the exit to turn 6 on lap 57. The stewards have extensively
reviewed the situation that occurred prior to the crash.
Car 63 (George Russell) was following Car 14 (Fernando Alonso) approximately 0.5
seconds behind as the cars approached turn 6. Alonso explained to the stewards that
he intended to approach turn 6 differently, lifting earlier, and with less speed into the
corner, to get a better exit. Russell explained to the stewards that from his
perspective, Alonso’s manoeuvre was erratic, took him by surprise and caused him to
close distance unusually fast, and with the resulting lower downforce at the apex of
the corner, he lost control and crashed at the exit of the corner. There was no contact
between the cars.
Telemetry shows that Alonso lifted slightly more than 100m earlier than he ever had
going into that corner during the race. He also braked very slightly at a point that he
did not usually brake (although the amount of brake was so slight that it was not the
main reason for his car slowing) and he downshifted at a point he never usually
downshifted. He then upshifted again, and accelerated to the corner before lifting
again to make the corner. Alonso explained that while his plan was to slow earlier, he
got it slightly wrong and had to take extra steps to get back up to speed. Nonetheless,
this manoeuvre created a considerable and unusual closing speed between the cars.
In considering the matter the stewards focused solely on the wording of the regulation
which states “At no time may a car be driven unnecessarily slowly, erratically or in a
manner which could be deemed potentially dangerous to other drivers or any other
person.” (Art 33.4)
Specifically, in this case, the stewards have not considered the consequences of the
crash. Further, the stewards considered that they do not have sufficient information
to determine whether Alonso’s manoeuvre was intended to cause Russell problems,
or whether as he stated to the stewards that he simply was trying to get a better exit.
Should Alonso have the right to try a different approach to the corner? – yes.
Should Alonso be responsible for dirty air, that ultimately caused the incident? – no.
However, did he choose to do something, with whatever intent, that was
extraordinary, ie lifting, braking, downshifting and all the other elements of the
manoeuvre over 100m earlier than previously, and much greater than was needed to
simply slow earlier for the corner? - yes by his own account of the incident he did, and
in the opinion of the stewards by doing these things, he drove in a manner that was at
very least “potentially dangerous” given the very high speed nature of that point of the
track.
This season, the FIA Formula 1 penalty guidelines, including for this breach have
been reset and increased to a baseline of a 10s penalty. In addition, when there is
some aggravating circumstance, we consider a Drive Through Penalty. In this case
we consider that Alonso affirmatively choosing to perform an unusual manoeuvre at
this point to be an aggravating circumstance, as opposed to a simple mistake.
The stewards therefore order a drive through penalty, which will be converted to 20
seconds added to Car 14’s elapsed time, along with three penalty points.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Matthew Selley
The Stewards