2024 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 August 2024
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 24 August 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 15:38
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 28) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 11:40
Session Practice 3
Fact Continuing on track with a significantly damaged front wing.
InfringementBreach of Article 26.10 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Reprimand to the team.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 27 (Nico Hulkenberg), team
representative and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
Car 27 hit the tyre barrier in Turn 11 and sustained damage to the front wing.
However, the driver was able to continue and drove back to the pits in a slow and
safe manner. As the driver is unable to assess the condition of the front wing while
being in the car due to limited visibility, the team informed the driver that parts of the
front wing were missing, but did not tell him to stop the car.
As significant parts of the front wing were damaged, the Stewards determine that the
car had significant mechanical difficulties and therefore a breach of Art. 26.10
occurred.
However, the Stewards note that the incident happened shortly before the end of the
lap and therefore the team deemed it to be the safest way to return the car slowly to
the pits instead of stopping on track. The driver remained in full control of the car and
never acted in any unsafe manner.
It is also taken in account that, whereas the car lost some smaller parts on the way
back, debris neither had to be removed from the circuit nor did it impact other cars on
track.
Given the fact that there was only a short period of time for the team to assess the
damage after the car rejoined the track and considering the above facts as mitigation,
the Stewards issue a reprimand to the team instead of a more severe penalty.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Arie Kroeze
The Stewards