2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November - 01 December
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 2
To All Teams, All Officials Date 28 November 2024
Time 19:10
Title Car Display Procedure
Description Car Display Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Qatar Grand Prix - Car Display Procedure .pdf
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November – 01 December 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 28 November 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: CAR DISPLAY PROCEDURE
In addition to the requirements set out in Article 19 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, please
note the following procedures for the Car Presentation and Display at this Competition:
Between 15:00 and 16:00 on Friday, one car from each team must be positioned in their pit stop
position, with the other car positioned and available for viewing inside the garage. If only one car will
carry the major aerodynamic and bodywork components and assemblies that have not been run at a
previous Competition or TCC and are intended to be run at the Competition, this car must be the one
displayed to media.
The car outside may be used for pit stop practice but when no pit stop practice is taking place the car
must return to the same position. Teams selected for the presentation may not carry out pit stop practice
during their allocated presentation timeslot.
In the case of adverse weather conditions, 5 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the car display all
teams will be notified that the procedure may be conducted in the Competitors' designated garage area.
At any Competition where it is raining during this presentation, we would ask you to leave the cars in
position and use awnings.
Any media wishing to take photographs must stay in the fast lane of the pit lane. For the avoidance of
doubt this includes taking still images with professional cameras, mobile phones or any other device. TV
Crews are allowed to shoot in the working lane of the pit lane.
The cars below have been selected for presentations:
• 15:05 - car 63
• 15:25 - car 23
• 15:45 - car 10
Each team that is selected must have the technical representative indicated previously to the FIA
available at these times.
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
1