2024 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 April 2024
From The Stewards Document 40
To The Team Manager, Date 20 April 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 14:32
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 14 - Fernando Alonso
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 11:30
Session Sprint
Fact Incident between cars 14 & 55 in Turn 9.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision 10 second time penalty to be added to the elapsed time of Car 14
3 penalty points (total of 6 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 4 (Fernando Alonso), the driver of Car
55 (Carlos Sainz), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video and in-car video evidence and determined that Car 14 caused a collision
with Car 55 at Turn 9. The result of the collision was that Car 55 was damaged and
that Car 14 had a puncture and retired before the end of the sprint session.
As per the guidelines on driving standards, which was agreed with the teams, an
infringement of this nature required that a baseline penalty of 10 seconds was to be
added to the time of a car that caused a collision.
Article 54.3 of the Sporting Regulations states if the 10 second penalty is imposed
after the end of a sprint session, then 10 seconds will be added to the elapsed time of
the driver concerned. We accordingly added 10 seconds to the elapsed time of Car
14.
As an aside to the FIA, we note that the language in the regulations as to when a car
has retired and the resultant consequences on penalties that may be imposed or
served, especially when that car is otherwise classified, is somewhat unclear and we
would recommend that the FIA considers making the necessary amendments to bring
greater clarity to this issue.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Zheng Honghai
The Stewards