2024 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 June 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 21 June 2024
Time 10:53
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Spanish Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
with potentially warm races ahead in Europe, the
sidepod inlet geometries have been revised based
Circuit specific -
1 Sidepod Inlet Revised sidepod inlet geometries upon simualtion results to exploit higher pressure
Cooling Range
inlet air for greatest cooling efficiency and
therefore least number of exit louvre openings.
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - Change to the engine cover side panels to match the Changes to this region of the car wwere triggered
2
Cover Cooling Range new sidepod inelt profiles by the new sidepod inlet geometry.
Circuit specific - The floor assembly change is to accommodate the
3 Floor Body Floor altered to meet the new engine cover split line.
Cooling Range engine cover and sidepod inlet changes
To exploit available air pressure the beam wing
Performance - beam wing elements have been extruded into a
4 Beam Wing span has been increased to meet a new endplate
Local Load revised endplate geometry
offering more local load
Rear Wing Performance - Accommodates a wider span beam wing as
5 Lower third of the endplate has moved outboard
Endplate Local Load described above.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS FORMULA ONE TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Introduction of more loaded Top and Lower Rear
Wing main and flap profiles. Allowing different
Circuit specific - Higher Downforce Top Rear Wing and Lower Rear
1 Rear Wing modulations, this update extends the car polar in
Drag Range Wing designs
order to offer more possibilities on mid/high
downforce tracks.
The new bodywork features a reworked undercut
Coke/Engine Performance -
2 Increased Sidepod / Coke undercut that improves flow quality over the floor edge and
Cover Flow Conditioning
towards the back of the car.
Aim of redistributing front floor fence loading was
Performance -
3 Floor Fences Redistributed floor fences camber to improve flow quality delivered to the rear floor /
Flow Conditioning
diffuser
Working in conjunction with the updated front floor
Performance -
4 Floor Body Lowered front floor roof fences arrangement, with the objective of
Flow Conditioning
improving flow quality towards the back of the car
This minor geometrical update is an optimization
Performance - around the improved flow energy coming from
5 Floor Edge Rearward floor edge volume increased
Local Load upstream, returning local load gains whilst
controlling the vorticity release in the diffuser
Benefitting from tidier upstream flow structures,
Performance - the diffuser expansion, together with boat and keel
6 Diffuser Reworked diffuser / boat / keel expansion
Local Load volumes optimization, has allowed to extract more
local load gains
Following the geometry introduced in Imola, the
Performance - Flow cockpit device has been further optimized and is
7 Halo Updated halo trailing edge and cockpit device
Conditioning another step at improving the management of the
losses travelling downstream
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The update to the front corner geometry improves
Front Performance -
1 Suspension fairings with revised twist distribution. the local interactions between the suspension
Suspension Local Load
fairings and the external duct to improve local load.
The update to the front corner geometry improves
Performance -
2 Front Corner Brake duct scoop and exit update to a new shape. the local interactions between the suspension
Local Load
fairings and the external duct to improve local load.
The revised position of the lower deflector in
Performance - Lower deflector position modified with a different combination with the changes to the lower edge
3 Rear Corner
Local Load lower edge trim applied. offer increased load on the device and surrounding
areas.

BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
WILLIAMS RACING
No updates submitted for this event.
VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The reduced brake cooling requirement for Spain vs
Monaco or Canda allows smaller ducts to be used.
Circuit specific - The front brake cooling duct has been reverted to
1 Front Corner With less air needed for cooling, that energy can be
Cooling Range the specificiation used prior to Monaco.
used for efficient downforce generation elsewhere
on the car.
The combined change of bodywork & sidepod inlet
helps to condition the flow over the top of the
Coke/Engine Performance - The engine cover top surface and lower surface in bodywork and around the side to improve the flow
2
Cover Flow Conditioning the area of the sidepods has been reprofiled. to the rear of the car and to the floor edge,
improving the performance of the floor and rear
wing.
In combination with the bodywork, this helps
Performance - The sidepod leading edge has been reprofiled to suit
3 Sidepod Inlet improve flow quality passing down the side of the
Flow Conditioning the new bodywork.
car.
The changes made across the forward floor and
fences modify the load distribution of the forward
Performance - The height and shape of the forward floor has been
4 Floor Body floor, generating additional local load whilst
Local Load updated, with the fences modified to suit.
minimising any negative effects on downstream
flow quality.
A new rear wing for medium-high downforce tracks. Improved efficient load generation of the rear wing,
Performance -
5 Rear Wing Rear wing profiles have been redesigned to improve targeting a drag level of interest at this & future
Local Load
the pressure coefficient (Cp) profiles for efficiency. events.
The loading of the beam wing is designed to work in
Compared to Monaco, the camber & incidence of
combination with the upper wings expected to be
Circuit specific - the elements is reduced, positioning this wing as an
6 Beam Wing used at Spain, to target the appropriate drag level
Drag Range intermediate step between that used at previous
and provide aerodynamic support to the upper
high & medium downforce circuits.
wing and diffuser.
STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Together with the previously introduced mono pylon,
the updated rear wing is linked to the new
Performance - Redesigned pylon, main plane and flap with
1 Rear Wing generation of rear wings and is characterised by a
Flow Conditioning detached outboard tips.
new version of flap, improving the aerodynamic
efficiency of the car.
The updated front brake ducts are being introduced
Performance -
2 Front Corner Redesigned exit ducts of the front brake duct. to further improve the aerodynamic flow and answer
Flow Conditioning
the cooling needs of the car in this weekend's race.

MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Introduction of a small winglet on the RIS, which
Rear Impact
1 Local Load Upwashing Flick on RIS trailing edge increases the local upwash resulting in a marginal
Structure
load increase.