2024 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 October 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 6
To All Teams, All Officials Date 18 October 2024
Time 09:55
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 United States Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – USA Austin Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
With more local camber in the edge wing over its
Performance -
1 Floor Edge Revised edge wing camber over rearward third. rearmost third, more local load is generated whilst
Local Load
maintain flow stability
Continuing the steps previously taken, more
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - Sidepod upper surface lower and floor junction
2 efficient cooling can be attained with the geometric
Cover Cooling Range curve re-profiled
changes to minimise the louvre openings.

Car Presentation – 2024 United States Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Change in flap spanwise twist, reduces front wing
Performance - Flow wake which improves flow to the rear of the car and
1 Front Wing Change in flap twist distribution
Conditioning rear downforce.
Re-profiling has improved the attachment of the rear
Front Performance - Flow Re-profiled upper wishbone fairing. leg through an increased operating range, improving
2
Suspension Conditioning flow to the rear of the car.
Additional vane element increases mass flow under
Performance - Local Additional vane element added to floor edge wing. forward floor, increasing vorticity shed from the fence
3 Floor Edge
Load system, increasing floor load.
Lower lip geometry change has improved the flow
alignment through a increased range of operating
Circuit specific - Lower lip of sidepod inlet moved rearwards.
4 Sidepod Inlet conditions and cooling levels - ultimately improving
Cooling Range
engine cooling.
Additional cooling exit added local to rear suspension
to increase sidepod mass flow whilst minimising
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - Additional cooling exits local to rear suspension legs
5 impact on downstream components such as the rear
Cover Cooling Range
wing.
New fence profile has improved local pressure
Performance - Flow Reprofiled inboard fence distribution and position of vorticity, improving both
6 Floor Fences
Conditioning local and downstream load through better onset flow.

Car Presentation – United States Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Austin Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The new front wing geometry improves flow
Performance - conditioning in conjunction with the updated front
1 Front Wing New Front Wing Geometry
Flow Conditioning suspension geometry throughout various
conditions resulting in improved aerodynamic load.
The new front suspension is designed around the
Front Performance -
2 New Front Suspension new front wing geometry aimed at maximising the
Suspension Flow Conditioning
improved flow characteristics introduced with it.
The front brake duct furniture has been updated to
Performance - complement the changes on front wing and front
3 Front Corner Updated Front Brake Duct Furniture
Flow Conditioning suspension, resulting in overall improved flow
characteristics.
Suitable for tracks with low front brake cooling
Circuit specific - demand, a reduced cooling front brake duct has
4 Front Corner Low Cooling Front Brake Duct
Cooling Range been designed, improving overall aerodynamic load
at the expense of front brake cooling.
Small modification of rear suspension fairings with
Performance - the aim of improving overall flow quality across
5 Rear Corner Modified Rear Suspension Fairing
Flow Conditioning multiple conditions, enabling aerodynamic load
generation.
The reworked rear brake duct cooling exit has been
Circuit specific -
6 Rear Corner New RBD Cooling Exit designed with the aim of improving overall cooling
Cooling Range
performance of the rear corner assembly.
A less loaded, single element beam wing, which
Circuit specific - Single Element Beamwing for High Downforce Rear efficiently reduces drag in conjunction with the high
7 Beam Wing
Drag Range Wing downforce rear wing assembly, has been brought to
this event.

Car Presentation – United States Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The changes to the front wing and endplate modify
Performance - A new front wing with revised twist distribution
1 Front Wing the spanwise loading of the wing assembly to
Local Load alongside a new flap.
improve the performance
The changes to the front wing and endplate modify
Front Wing Performance - In combination with the front wing the endplate has
2 the spanwise loading of the wing assembly to
Endplate Local Load revised tip details.
improve the performance
The bodywork and floor in combination improve
Coke/Engine Performance - Revised bodywork with a different coke line and the flowfield under the floor increasing the local
3
Cover Local Load simpler upper shoulder. load generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.
The bodywork and floor in combination improve
Performance - The main body of the floor has evolved in most the flowfield under the floor increasing the local
4 Floor Body
Local Load places with the floor edge development. load generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.
The bodywork and floor in combination improve
Performance - Small changes to the details of the floor edge wing the flowfield under the floor increasing the local
5 Floor Edge
Local Load and the main floor inboard of this. load generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.
The bodywork and floor in combination improve
Performance - The roof and sidewall of the diffuser have a slightly the flowfield under the floor increasing the local
6 Diffuser
Local Load modified profile. load generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.

Car Presentation – United States Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
General optimisation of the floor geometry to
Performance –
1 Floor Body Re-profiling of various parts of the main floor improve under floor flow quality with the objective
Local Load
of increasing the load generated by the floor.
Re-designed floor edge to improve under floor flow
Performance –
2 Floor Edge Floor Edge Modification quality. This floor edge works in conjunction with
Local Load
the redesigned floor geometry.
The bodywork has been reshaped to improve flow
Coke/Engine Performance -
3 New Bodywork Shape conditioning and to better interact with the floor
Cover Flow Conditioning
and the rear of the car.
This rear wing assembly is introduced to offer a gain
Performance –
4 Rear wing Re-profiled rear wing main plane and flap in efficiency with more rear wing loading. This
Local Load
constitutes a suitable option for this track.

Car Presentation – USA Grand Prix
WILLIAMS
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – United States Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works
component for update version (min 20, max 100 words)
Performance - Profile changes to the main underfloor and chassis Increased local downforce generation, and loss
1 Floor Body
Local Load interface. reduction of underfloor structures.

Car Presentation – United States Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The updated geometries aim to improve the front
tyre flow structures. This has a positive effect to the
Performance -
flow field further downstream on the car,
1 Front Wing All FW elements have been updated.
Flow Conditioning improving both overall downforce of the car and
the aero characteristics.
Together with the new FW the front suspension
Combined with the new FW we have updated the
Performance -
Front covers needed to be realigned based on the onset
2 front suspension covers as well - pullrod, track rod
Flow Conditioning
Suspension flow field to have clean flow features further
and lower wishbone covers.
downstream on the car.
Rear top wishbone fairing upgrade with local flow
Rear Performance - conditioning improvements. Positive interaction
3 Revised rear top wishbone cover.
Suspension Flow Conditioning with the updated rear brake duct brings a small
efficiency increase.
The upper deflectors were updated in combination
Combined with the revised rear top wishbone cover
Performance - with the top wishbone cover. Improved local flow
4 Rear Corner the upper rear brake duct deflectors were
Flow Conditioning and positive interaction with the updated
updated.
component brings a small efficiency increase.

Car Presentation – 2024 USA Grand Prix (Austin)
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
Increasing the undercut under the sidepod inlet
Performance - favours clean air flow towards the rear of the car.
1 Sidepod Inlet Deeper Undercut
Flow Conditioning Combined with the revised floor this allows a more
balanced performance increase across the car.
Increased front floor suction combined with
Performance -
2 Floor Body Revised initial floor expansion and diffuser geometry improved rear extraction allows to increase the
Local Load
overall performance of the floor.
The improved front floor extraction required a
Performance -
3 Floor Fences Revised fence alignment revised alignment of the front floor fences, as they
Flow Conditioning
must manage different flow features.
The revised floor allows greater extraction from the
Performance -
4 Floor Edge New Edge Wing design floor edge, hence an improved design allowed to
Local Load
extract higher performance from the car.
The improved incoming floor to the rear of the car
Performance - allows higher extraction from the rear corner,
5 Rear Corner Additional element on the IB cascade
Local Load which is achieved with an additional upwashing
component on the inner face of the rear drum.
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - In case of additional cooling requirements, a bigger
6 Larger engine cover central exit
Cover Cooling Range central exit on the engine cover is available.
In combination with the new engine cover,
Cooling Circuit specific - New cooling louver design on sidepod and engine additional cooling louver options are available,
7
Louvres Cooling Range cover which increase heat extraction and try to minimize
the drag penalty.
