2024 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
07 - 09 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 63
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 June 2024
Time 20:50
Title Decision - Octane Racing Group
Description Decision - Octane Racing Group
Enclosed CAN DOC 63 - Promoter Decision.pdf
Felix Holter Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Marcel Demers
The Stewards
2024 C G P
ANADIAN RAND RIX
07 – 09 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 63
To All Officials, All Teams Date 09 June 2024
Time 20:50
The Stewards, having received a report from the FIA Sporting Delegate and the Race Director,
having examined video evidence, summoned and heard representatives of Octane Racing Group
(the « Promoter »), have considered the following matter, and determine the following:
Time 15:50
Session Race
Fact A large group of spectators managed to break the security lines and accessed the
track in several areas while the race was finishing and cars were still on track. The
security measures and/or security officers and/or equipment which were expected
to be in place for the Event were not either enforced or were not sufficient resulting
in an unsafe environment for the spectators and drivers.
Offence Breach of Article 12.2.1.h of the 2024 FIA International Sporting Code (i.e.
failure to take reasonable measures, thus resulting in an unsafe situation).
Reasoned Decision
1. The Stewards heard from representatives from the Promoter and from the FIA and
considered the video evidence available on the above facts.
2. The Promoter candidly admitted that the safety measures in place did not achieve
the goal to prevent spectators from entering the track. They concurred with the
FIA Sporting Delegate and the Race Director report and agreed that this was an
unacceptable situation.
3. The Promoter stated, in mitigation, that they would conduct a thorough
investigation and take steps to remediate in time for the next event in Canada.
They also expressed their disappointment as they had already invested significant
resources in improving the safety measures, but apparently this did not have the
desired effect.
4. In the circumstances, the Stewards hereby determine that:
a. The Promoter breached Article 12.2.1.h of the 2024 FIA International
Sporting Code.
b. The Promoter urgently (i.e. at the latest by 30th September 2024) present
a formal remediation plan to the FIA that adequately addresses the serious
concerns above.
5. As this relates to serious issues around safety and security, the Stewards hereby
request the FIA to review and comment on whether the abovementioned steps are
adequate to address the concerns raised and to state if any further measure(s)
need to be taken, as soon as possible. This should be done directly with the
Promoter.
6. The Stewards reinforce the fact that the paramount goal needs to be to prevent
the reoccurrence of such an incident and make it clear that a significant financial
penalty will be imposed in case of any reoccurrence.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented
Felix Holter Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Marcel Demers
The Stewards