2024 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 April 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 25
To All Teams, All Officials Date 06 April 2024
Time 09:32
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Japanese Grand Prix - Post-Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
05 – 07 April 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 06 April 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane and proceed down the fast lane and park in front of the garage 40 (VCARB) where they will find
the 1,2,3 boards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no
driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at
this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place on the grid. The
interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award
photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Race Control Building in the paddock.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located in
the paddock.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session immediately
after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they
participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
For drivers outside of the top three (3) positions at the end of qualifying we would like to remind you of
1
point 16 of the Race Director’s Notes and ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is
followed:
• Any drivers who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed to the
FIA scales through the pit lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The drivers
may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the FIA.
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team.
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars
without contact with any other person.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2024 Japanese Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Qualifying
Walkway
(Garage
27)
32-28 36-33 40-37 44-41 48-45 50-49 55-51
W V S
M O F aaa eeerrr AAA ggg nnniiitttiii aaa WWW sssrrr eee hhh ppp aaarrr ggg ooottt ooo hhh PPP E N I P L A S M A I L L I B R P P A H S A C A S I M A E T 1 F E K A T S A A H M O F GAR F A IA G ES RACE CONTROL TOWER
PPooddiiuumm
BACKDROP
Remaining cars
parked here
2nd FIA SCALES
1st
3rd
Pit Wall Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
TOP 3 TO BE
INTERVIEWED
ON THE GRID IN
TTVV RRFF
FRONT OF
CCaammeerraammaann
GRANDSTAND
Grid position 22
Version 1 – 05 April 2024