2024 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
30 August - 01 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 45
To The Team Manager, Date 31 August 2024
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 18:58
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 38 & 39)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 81 - Oscar Piastri
Competitor McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 16:13
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 81 was released unsafely into the path of Car 1.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.14 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (McLaren Formula 1 Team) is fined €10,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 81 (Oscar Piastri), the driver of Car 1
(Max Verstappen), team representatives and reviewed video and in-car video
evidence.
The driver of Car 81 stated that whilst leaving the pit garage he checked as best he
could, for cars coming down pit lane but noted that visibility from the cockpit is
severely limited due to the angle of the car. He stated he therefore needed to rely on
the signal from his mechanic, and when he was given the signal to leave, he pulled
into the fast lane. He did not see Car 1 until it appeared in his mirrors when he was in
the fast lane.
The McLaren team representative admitted that the mechanic had misjudged the
situation and that the error belonged to the Team.
The driver of Car 1 stated that he saw the mechanic waving out Car 81 and thought
that this was a “very optimistic” move.
The Red Bull representative stressed that the mechanic should be focussing on the
movement of cars in the pit lane and the Stewards noted from the pit lane CCTV
video that in this case the focus appeared to be more on Car 81 than cars in pit lane.
Having noted precedents for this type of breach, the Stewards are of the view that
this breach warrants a more severe penalty than previously applied hence the penalty
above is imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Valerio Brizzolari
The Stewards