2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November - 01 December
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 30 November 2024
Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 15:19
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 22 - Yuki Tsunoda
Competitor Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 20:38
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Car 22 exceeded the time limit between the Safety Car lines.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 2, document 3).
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
This is the driver’s 2nd reprimand of the season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 22 (Yuki Tsunoda),the team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team
radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver of Car 22 stated he was trying to stay on his delta and was actually 2
seconds below the delta prior to the last corner when he backed right off to let other
cars past. The team representative noted that the SC2 to SC1 time was 6 seconds
lower than that of last year. However the Stewards determined that the driver could
have closed the gap prior to reaching the last corner.
The Stewards note that the Race Director’s notes were issued in accordance with
Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code, for the “safe and orderly” conduct
of the event. In this case, there is no evidence of any unsafe or disorderly conduct
(such as unnecessary impeding) however a breach has still occurred, due to the
failure to comply with the SC2 to SC1 time, and hence the penalty of a Reprimand
(Driving) is imposed.
The Stewards advise all competitors that particular attention will be paid to adherence
to the Event Notes in the Qualifying Session and that any potentially dangerous
behaviour or impeding may result in the application of grid penalties.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Amro Al Hamad
The Stewards