2024 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 April 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 6
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 April 2024
Time 08:52
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Chinese Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
No updates submitted for this event.
MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Generates small vortices, which help control the
Performance - Small flick added either side of the cockpit, behind
1 Halo flow out of the cockpit, and in doing so improve
Flow Conditioning the Halo.
flow to the rear wing assembly.

SCUDERIA FERRARI
No updates submitted for this event.
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Performance - Revised flow around the rear corner improves flow
1 Floor Body Revised diffuser letterbox in the diffuser sidewall.
Flow Conditioning control around the rear tyre.
Performance - Significant change from flow to front of the floor
2 Floor Fences Heavily revised inboard front floor fence geometry.
Local Load gives an increase in overall downforce.
Performance - Different flow around the floor edge effecting
3 Floor Edge Revised floor edge wing.
Flow Conditioning performance further down the car.

WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
The new geoemtry cleans-up the flow around the
HALO and better controls the losses from the
Performance - The geometry of the forward part of the HALO
1 Halo cockpit opening. This helps improve the flow to the
Flow Conditioning shroud is updated.
rear wing and beam wing and gives a small increase
in aerodynamic efficiency.

VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Performance - The area of the headrest behind the driver's helmet Airflow separation behind the driver's helmet is
1 Headrest
Flow Conditioning has been reshaped. reduced, improving the flow quality downstream.
Headrest
STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
No updates submitted for this event.
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for
Geometric differences compared to previous version Brief description on how the update works
component update
The new layout improves floor extraction and works in
Performance - Flow
1 Floor Fences Improved alignment of the front floor fences combination with the new floor later edge, resulting in
Conditioning
more downforce.
This new geometry is designed to work in combination
Performance - Local
2 Floor Edge Re-alignment of the floor edge devices with the new front floor fences, with the aim to
Load
improve drivability.
This configuration allows improved performance all
Coke/Engine Performance - Drag
3 Slimmer centre exit with larger cooling louver layout over the cooling polar slope, as it reduces the lower
Cover reduction
energy flow impacting the rear end of the car.
The incidence change on the rear corner elements
Performance - Flow
4 Rear Corner Rear Corner devices incidence change improves the local flow features, resulting in an
Conditioning
increase in local load.
The new design shrinks the frontal size of the Mirror
Performance - Flow
12 Mirror Slimmer Mirror housing and therefore reduces its wake, minimizing the impact
Conditioning
on the rear of the car.
