2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 42
To The Team Manager, Date 14 September 2024
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 20:57
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 36), summoned
(document 38) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 17:47
Session Qualifying
Fact Exceeding the instantaneous fuel mass flow limit.
InfringementBreach of Article 5.2.3 of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations.
Decision Car 10 is disqualified from the qualifying classification.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representatives of Car 10 (Pierre Gasly),
including the Sporting Director and the Engineer involved, and the FIA Technical
Delegate along with the FIA Engineers managing the measurements and data from
the car. The driver was summoned to give him the opportunity to provide a defence,
but did not attend the hearing.
The Technical Delegate reported that Car 10 exceeded the permitted 100Kg/h fuel
mass flow on the final timed lap of Q2.
The team representatives explained that they had an unexpected short duration
technical fault that raised the fuel mass flow greater than expected in a transient
fashion. The cause was agreed by the FIA technical staff.
That the fuel mass flow was greater than the limit at that moment was not disputed by
the competitor.
The competitor demonstrated to the Stewards that the technical fault resulted in a
slower lap time and that no performance advantage was obtained at that moment.
Thus, they argue, this should be taken into mitigation. They also noted that the great
rarity of breaches of this article demonstrates that this is not part of their strategy,
and that the scale of the transient simply exceeded the margin they maintain to
prevent a beach.
The usual penalty for a breach of the technical regulations is disqualification and the
Stewards note that Article 1.3.3 of the International Sporting Code states “If an
Automobile is found not to comply with the applicable technical regulations, it shall be
no defence to claim that no performance advantage was obtained.” In addition to the
Code this has long been the position of the International Court of Appeal.
Thus, the Stewards apply the usual penalty and disqualify the car and driver from the
classification of qualifying.
The Stewards hereby gives the car permission to start the race.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards