2024 HUNGARIAN GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 July 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 10
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 July 2024
Time 10:59
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Hungarian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions .pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Hungarian Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
better cooling efficiency is attained for a high
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - re-sculpted sidepods and engine cover revising the ambient temperature and relatively slow circuit
1
Cover Cooling Range central exit and louvre exits with the revised geometry by reducing the load
losses in such conditions from the exits.
A knock on effect of the topbody changes required
Circuit specific - Revised fairings towards the rearward mounts to suit
2 Halo a revision to the Halo fairings to eliminate
Cooling Range the topbody downstream
mismatches in the local surfaces
Changes to the profile of the wrap-around
Performance - upstream of the inatakes have given improvements
3 Rear Corner Revised wrap-around profile of the wheel bodywork
Local Load in brake and caliper cooling intake pressures for
better efficiencies.
Knowledge from the previous wings has allowed us
Performance - New profiles based upon previous designs affecting to extract more load form revised profiles without
4 Front Wing
Local Load all four elements affecting flow stability and protect downstream
consequences.
A further optimisation of the front lower wishbone
Performance - Revised front lower wishbone forward leg shroud
5 Front Corner forward leg shroud to provide higher pressure
Flow Conditioning profile
downstream.

MERCEDES-AMG PETRONAS FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
Trimming the lower deflector endplate reduces
Performance -
1 Rear Corner Lower defector endplate trim. local flow losses and therefore improves rear
Local Load
downforce through a range of ride heights.
SCUDERIA FERRARI
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
As a further evolution of the upgrade brought in
Performance - Spain, this minor geometrical modification aims at
1 Floor Body Reworked floor underbody
Flow Conditioning enhancing flow structure and aero loads stability
across the full operating envelope
MCLAREN FORMULA 1 TEAM
No updates submitted for this event.
ASTON MARTIN ARAMCO FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
The more aggressive design increases the load on
Circuit specific - A new Flap for the wing introduced at Silverstone
1 Front Wing the wing to balance the car with the higher loaded
Balance Range with more aggression.
rear wing which will be used at this event.
The vanes around the cockpit are designed to
Performance - The vanes attached to the Halo are revised with one
2 Halo control the position of some of the lower energy
Local Load that now joins the bodywork top deck.
flow from this surrounding area.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - The main body of the floor has evolved slightly in
3 Floor Body floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load most places with the fences and floor edge.
lower surface and hence performance.
The fences are redistributed across the LE of the The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance -
4 Floor Fences floor with revised curvature and leading edge floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load
profiles.. lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - Small changes to the details of the floor edge wing
5 Floor Edge floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load and the main floor inboard of this.
lower surface and hence performance.
The changes to the shape modify the expansion in
Performance - The diffuser is a slightly modified shape with boat
6 Diffuser the diffuser to improve flow characteristics and the
Local Load surface.
load generated on the surfaces.
The changes to the OB of the beam wing effects the
Performance - Revised beam wing with more raised second
7 Beam Wing balance of performance between the floor and rear
Local Load element outboard.
wing for improved performance.

BWT ALPINE F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
As part of our normal development cycle, this new
rear corner aims at giving more authority on the
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Corner New inlet and exit ducts with new furniture. management of our rear brakes temperature
Cooling Range
through a wider inlet duct as well as a larger exit
duct.
WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
This new larger exit simply results in a larger air
mass flow rate through the cooling system. This
A new central exit duct for the cooling system is
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - increases the cooling to the PU and GBox fluids but
1 available. It is physically larger than those run
Cover Cooling Range comes at the cost of downforce and drag
previously.
performance. It will be fitted if the ambient
conditions demand it.
VISA CASH APP RB FORMULA ONE TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
The duct modifications improve the flow
management through the brake system, ensuring
Circuit specific -
1 Front Corner Updated internal ducting. that the incoming mass flow is distributed in the
Cooling Range
correct proportions to the individual items than
need cooling.
Performance - The geometry of the winglets on the rear corner has Additional downforce is generated, suitable for
2 Rear Corner
Local Load been updated. high-downforce circuits such as Hungary.

STAKE F1 TEAM KICK SAUBER
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
Combined with the reworked engine cover, the new
Performance -
1 Sidepod Inlet Revised sidepod inlet geometry sidepod inlet delivers better flow quality down the
Flow Conditioning
side of the car.
Bodywork and sidepod were changed together to
Coke/Engine Performance -
2 Engine cover top surface re-designed improve the quality of the flow reaching the floor
Cover Flow Conditioning
edge and the rear of the car.
The new front floor shape combined with the
Performance - Reworked floor height and shape, combined with re- reworked fences deliver additionnal local load
3 Floor Body
Flow Conditioning optimized floor fences. whilst maintaining a good flow quality for the rear
floor.
The new floor edge delivers a local load increase
Performance -
4 Floor Edge Closed floor edge slot whilst maintaining the vorticity level in the diffuser
Local Load
under control.
The new corner and rear suspension covers
Performance - New brake scoop duct, deflectors geometries and delivered a step of performance when combined
5 Rear Corner
Local Load associated suspension fairings with the new bodywork and floor, both in local load
and in the surrounding area.
The fairings were part of the new corner described
above. They were realigned to the changes onset
Rear Performance - New rear suspension fairings associated to the new
6 condtitions from the updated bodywork and deliver
Suspension Flow Conditioning rear corner.
a clean flow for the rear floor and rear corner
devices.
Halo design revised to improve the flow quality
Performance -
7 Halo Revised halo design combined with a new deflector along the bodywork with an improved control of
Flow Conditioning
the cockpit losses.
Together with the sidepod inlet and the engine
Performance - cover update we adapted the mirror stays to
8 Mirror Updated mirror geometries
Flow Conditioning achieve better flow control and flow quality
towards the rear end.
Together with the sidepod inlet update which is
Performance - slightly raised we adapted the headrest shoulder
9 Headrest Raised headrest shoulders
Flow Conditioning towards the sidepod / engine cover for a smooth
transition.
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
This option represents a cooling option: wider
Coke/Engine Circuit specific -
1 Larger Engine Cover Cooling Exit central exit allows more heat rejection. Option
Cover Cooling Range
designed to minimize the Aero penalty.
Further cooling options with the possibility to fit
louvres on the Sidepod top (most efficient ones as
Cooling Circuit specific -
2 Set of Sidepod top and engine cover louvers on top of the radiators) and a range of louvres on
Louvres Cooling Range
the new Engine cover to fine tune the potential
cooling requirements.