2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November - 01 December
From The Stewards Document 26
To The Team Manager, Date 30 November 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 15:17
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 18) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 20:41
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Car 11 exceeded the time limit between the Safety Car lines.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 2, document 3).
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 11 (Sergio Perez), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team radio and in-
car video evidence.
The driver of Car 11 stated he was focussed on not impeding any other car and was
trying to maintain a gap to the cars in front. When questioned on any potential
sporting advantage he stated that quite the opposite was the case as his tyres did not
reach optimal temperature. The Stewards accept this explanation.
The Stewards note that the Race Director’s notes were issued in accordance with
Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code, for the “safe and orderly” conduct
of the event. In this case, there is no evidence of any unsafe or disorderly conduct
(such as unnecessary impeding) however a breach has still occurred, due to the
failure to comply with the SC2 to SC1 time, and hence the penalty of a Reprimand
(Driving) is imposed.
The Stewards advise all competitors that particular attention will be paid to adherence
to the Event Notes in the Qualifying Session and that any potentially dangerous
behaviour or impeding may result in the application of grid penalties.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Amro Al Hamad
The Stewards