2024 QATAR GRAND PRIX
29 November - 01 December
From The Stewards Document 49
To The Team Manager, Date 01 December 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 00:59
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 43 & 44)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 21:58
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 1 drove unnecessarily slowly on a cool down lap.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 1 grid position for the next Race in which the driver participates.
1 penalty point (total of 6 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), the driver of Car 63
(George Russell), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Car 1 was on a different preparation strategy to that of Car 63. Car 1 was well
outside of the delta and the driver of Car 1 explained he had let Cars 4 and 14 past.
The driver of Car 63 claimed that he had adhered to the delta and did not expect Car
1 to be on the racing line. He stated that if a car was going slow in a high speed
corner, it should not be on the racing line.
The Stewards regard this case as a complicated one in that clearly Car 1 did not
comply with the Race Director’s Event Notes and clearly was driving, in our
determination, unnecessarily slowly considering the circumstances.
It was obvious the driver of Car 1 was attempting to cool his tyres. He also could see
Car 63 approaching as he looked in his mirror multiple times whilst on the small
straight between Turns 11 and 12.
Unusually, this incident occurred when neither car was on a push lap. Had Car 63
been on a push lap, the penalty would have most likely been the usual 3 grid position
penalty, however in mitigation of penalty, it was obvious that the driver of Car 63 had
clear visibility of Car 1 and that neither car was on a push lap.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Amro Al Hamad
The Stewards