2024 MONACO GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 35
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 19:46
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 26 & 27)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:27
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 27 allegedly unnecessarily impeded Car 31 in turn 3.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 27 (Nico Hulkenberg), the driver of Car
31 (Esteban Ocon), team representatives and reviewed video, team radio and in-car
video evidence and determined that Car 31 was on a push lap and caught Car 27 at
Turn 3.
The team had attempted to warn Car 27 of the arrival of Car 31 on a fast lap but the
radio communication system was not working reliably and the driver of Car 27 did not
receive the messages. We heard the radio messages from the team to the driver but
it appears that those messages did not go through to the car.
The driver of Car 31 confirmed that he too had issues with the communication
system. We had similar reports of intermittent radio messages from another team
today.
The driver of Car 31 acknowledged that, because the entry of Turn 3 is blind, the
driver of Car 27 could not have known of his approach without the benefit of a radio
warning. He also felt that, notwithstanding the fact that he caught Car 27, he was not
materially impacted during that lap by Car 27 because Car 27 picked up the pace at
Turn 4.
Given that the team had attempted to warn their driver appropriately of the arrival of
Car 31; in the light of the technical issues with the radio communications; and the fact
that the driver of Car 31 said that he was not materially impacted, we took no further
action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Matthew Selley
Derek Warwick Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards