2024 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 August 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 August 2024
Time 09:53
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Dutch Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
ORACLE RED BULL RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to
Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version
Cooling requirements for up-coming races implies
Coke/Engine Circuit specific -
1 Narrowed central exit the central exit can be narrower which cascades
Cover cooling range
into the quarter panel to reduce blockage.
To improve the total pressure downstream the
Performance –
2 Halo Rearward fairing revised to re-orientate the vane floor upper surfaces by better alignment to the
Flow Conditioning
local flow conditions.
To improve the total pressure available
Performance -Flow downstream along the sidepod and to the floor
3 Mirror stays Revised horizontal stay height and vertical stay angle
Conditioning upper surface again by better alignment to the local
flow conditions.

Car Presentation – 2024 Dutch Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The redesigned Front Brake Scoop results in an
Performance - improvement of overall flow conditions
1 Front Corner New Front Brake Scoop
Flow Conditioning downstream yielding a gain of aerodynamic load
without compromising brake cooling performance.
To suit the altered flow conditions resulting from
Front Performance - the new front brake scoop geometry, the front
2 Revised Front Suspension
Suspension Flow Conditioning suspension has been modified, complementing the
beneficial effect downstream.
The Floor Edge modification improves both local
Performance - load generation around the floor edge as well as
3 Floor Edge Revised Floor Edge
Local Load flow conditioning improving overall floor
performance.
The revised rear suspension shape results in an
Performance -
4 Rear Corner Modified Rear Suspension improvement of flow conditioning around the rear
Flow Conditioning
corner, diffuser and beam wing area.
Suitable to the isochronal of this circuit, a
Circuit specific -
5 Rear Wing New Higher Downforce Rear Wing completely new rear wing assembly has been
Drag Range
designed, increasing overall wing efficiency.
As required by the difference in Rear Wing Design,
Circuit specific - a new Beam Wing, suitable for the new high
6 Beam Wing New Higher Downforce Beam Wing
Drag Range downforce Rear Wing Mainplane and Flap has been
designed.

Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This updated upper leg suspension profile brings a
Front Performance -
1 Reprofiled front suspension leg better flow control and a healthier flow towards the
Suspension Flow Conditioning
rear of the car for an aero-performance benefit.
The rear brake duct furniture has been updated
Performance -
2 Rear Corner Rear Brake Duct furniture with a new winglets arrangement in order to trade
Local Load
downforce and drag more efficiently.

Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
*Williams Racing*
Updated Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works (min
Primary reason for update
component previous version 20, max 100 words)
The floor body is fully updated as part of a
We have reprofiled the front of the floor body and the
completely new floor geometry. The height of the
local fence curvatures to offer a local load improvement
1 Floor Body Performance - Local Load forward floor is increased, and the fences are
and to also enhance the onset flow to the new floor edge
reprofiled. The floor edges are updated with more
wing geometry.
pronounced finger geometry.
Detail changes at the front of the floor have also created
The diffuser is also new with subtle reprofiling of opportunities for flow field improvements to the rear of
2 Diffuser Performance - Local Load
some of the key features. the car, which in turn have allowed us to extract more
performance in this local area.
The sidepod inlet geometry is updated. The upper The modifications to the sidepod inlet region have
Performance – Flow surface is now longer than the lower surface, offered improvements in loss management from the
3 Sidepod inlet
Conditioning creating a larger 'deck' alongside the cockpit front of the car and thus have unlocked performance
opening improvements to the rest of the car.
The main sidepod region is a new geometry, which
compliments the revised sidepod inlet and floor
The changes to the sidepod and engine cover have been
geometries. The gully in the sidepod is less
Coke / Engine Performance – Flow designed to complement and enhance the flow field
4 aggressive initially giving a longer forward deck,
Cover Conditioning improvements which have been unlocked from the
and the top body is now wider at the bottom edge.
previously described floor development work.
The cooling louvres and upper top body are
unchanged.
The primary purpose of this update is to remove mass
from the primary roll hoop structure. This has also
The main roll hoop geometry is revised, and the
Performance – Flow permitted some optimisation to the associated aero
5 Central air intake internal ducting and external aero surfaces are
Conditioning surfaces, which are design to compliment the flow field
reprofiled to suit.
improvements from the Sidepod Inlet and Coke/Engine
Cover updates

Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works
component for update version (min 20, max 100 words)
Lower brake cooling requirements allow duct area
Performance - The geometry of the brake duct & winglets has been
1 Rear Corner to be reduced, creating additional space for
Local Load updated.
downforce-generating devices.
Rear corner
Car Presentation – Dutch Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – 2024 Dutch Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
This new load distribution reduced the FW load IB,
favouring cleaner flow along the nose/chassis and
Performance - New camber distribution, reduced inboard and
1 Front Wing concentrates the front load mid span. The
Flow Conditioning increased mid span
connection to the endplate was also revised
because of the new profiles.
To achieve a cleaner central flow, the nose covers
now also the first element of the Front Wing. In
Performance - The nose covers also the first element of the Front
2 Nose conjunction with the new Front Wing, this allows to
Flow Conditioning Wing.
achieve a more efficient central flow, delivering
higher energy to the floor/bodywork.
Because of the revised Front Wing and Nose the
Front Performance -
3 Reprofiled upper wishbone. upper wishbone needed a re-profiling to comply
Suspension Flow Conditioning
with the new incoming flow.
Because of the revised Front Wing and Nose the
Performance -
4 Front Corner Vertical deflector incidence changed vertical deflector of the Front Corner needed to be
Flow Conditioning
re-aligned.
