2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 48
To The Team Manager, Date 04 May 2024
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 15:46
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 38) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 4 - Lando Norris
Competitor McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 12:04
Session Sprint
Fact The driver of Car 4 crossed the live track to return to the pit lane without permission.
InfringementBreach of Article 26.7 b) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Reprimand (Non-driving).
This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season.
The driver is fined €50,000, €25,000 of which is suspended for the remainder of the
2024 season on condition that there is no further breach of similar nature.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 4 (Lando Norris), team representative
and reviewed video evidence.
After crashing out of the race in Lap 1, the driver of Car 4 abandoned his car in the
run off area and walked back to the pits. He thereby crossed the track that was live at
this time. He did not have permission from the marshals to do so.
During the hearing the driver of Car 4 realized that the situation could have been very
dangerous for him.
The Stewards reinforced the fact that crossing a live track can cause extremely
dangerous situations and the drivers have to be very cautious about it.
In addition to imposing a significant fine (which is suspended in parts), the Stewards
also reprimand the driver bearing in mind that receiving a certain number of
reprimands during a season will draw a significant driving penalty in accordance with
Article 18.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Andrew Mallalieu
Vitantonio Liuzzi Dennis Dean
The Stewards