2024 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 40
To The Team Manager, Date 18 May 2024
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 19:15
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 33 & 34)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 81 - Oscar Piastri
Competitor McLaren Formula 1 Team
Time 16:16
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 81 unnecessarily impeded Car 20 in turn 2 / turn 3.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 8​​ 1 (Oscar Piastri), the driver of Car 2​​ 0
(Kevin Magnussen), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, team provided telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Piastri was exiting the pits and Magnussen was on his fast lap. Piastri impeded
Magnussen at the chicane at Turns 2 and 3.
The Stewards accepted the explanation of Piastri that because of the layout of the
circuit at that location, he could not see Magnussen until it was too late, at which time
he tried to accelerate away in order to get clear of Magnussen as quickly as possible.
Magnussen acknowledged that it was difficult for drivers to see cars behind in many
portions of the track, including here.
However, the Stewards reviewed the team radio and Piastri’s team did not warn him
of the much faster approaching car until Magnussen was too close for Piastri to do
anything to safely avoid impeding. In fact there was an approximately 140km/h speed
differential and Magnussen was only approximately 40-50m behind at the time and
this meant that Piastri was in the middle of the chicane when Magnussen caught up
directly behind Piastri. Further, it was clear that Magnussen was on a fast lap since
his exit of Turn 19.
The Stewards also reviewed where other drivers were warned of approaching cars
and it was significantly earlier, and they were able to avoid impeding at Turn 2/3.
Traffic management for slower cars is an extremely important part of the team/driver
combination, particularly in Q1. In this instance the Stewards determine that the lack
of sufficient warning caused an “unnecessary impeding.”
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matthew Selley
Vitantonio Liuzzi Matteo Perini
The Stewards