2024 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 April 2024
From The Stewards Document 50
To The Team Manager, Date 07 April 2024
Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 17:14
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 43 & 44)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 3 - Daniel Ricciardo
Competitor Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 14:04
Session Race
Fact Incident between cars 3 & 23 approaching turn 3.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix L Chapter IV Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting
Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 3 (Daniel Ricciardo), the driver of Car 23
(Alexander Albon), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, external and in-car video evidence.
The explanations of both drivers were aligned as to the facts of the incident.
On the approach to Turn 3, the driver of Car 3 noticed Car 18 on his left and stated
that he wanted to give that car sufficient room. He stated he then looked to the apex
of Turn 3. He did not see Car 23 on his right.
The driver of Car 23 stated that he thought he could overtake Car 3 on the outside,
into Turn 3, but then suddenly realised that Car 3 had not seen him, applied the
brakes but could not avoid the contact with Car 3.
Accordingly we determine this to be a first lap incident and decide to take no further
action.
If this incident had occurred on a subsequent lap, or without the presence of the third
car (Car 18), a different determination would have been made.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Kazuhiro Tsuge
The Stewards