2024 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
19 - 21 April 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 59
To All Teams, All Officials Date 21 April 2024
Time 12:46
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Chinese Grand Prix - Post-Race Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
19 – 21 April 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 21 April 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers and Guanyu Zhou (should he take checkered
flag) should stop on the grid in the vicinity of grid position 17 where they will find the boards from
1,2,3 and Guanyu Zhou.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no team
PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room behind the podium until
the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the
Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded
photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other
photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and
Podium procedure.
• Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
• The post-race interviews will take place in the pit lane, and the interviewer will be selected by the
Commercial Rights Holder.
• While the interviews take place, the mechanics of the winning car should push it into the pit lane and
position it underneath the podium.
• Drivers must not interfere with parc fermé protocols in any way.
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
• The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
1
• The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
• Each driver or representative must accept their trophy and presentations will take place in the
following order:
Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o
FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o
A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o
2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o
3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen, located in the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their press officers.
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Pit Garage Building.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2024 Chinese Grand Prix Parc Ferme – Race
Fence to be put
C across AFTER
B A
photographer’s
Photographers’
waiting area have moved to
pit wall
Podium
BACKDROP
SCALES Remaining cars
parked here
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
3rd
1st
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann ZHOU
2nd
GRID POSITION 17
Version 2 – 20 April 2024