2024 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 October 2024
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 29
To The Stewards Date 18 October 2024
Time 18:56
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the first free practice session:
The exhaust system components of all cars were checked against the declaration submitted by the
relevant team before the start of the Competition.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 31.
During the first free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P1 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The partial load fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
The exhaust fluid mass flow of all cars was checked.
After the first free practice session:
Car number 30 was weighed.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the first free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the first free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
Before the Sprint Qualifying session:
A fuel sample was taken from car number 43.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 43.
It was confirmed for all cars that the gear ratios used during the remainder of this Competition belong
to the gear ratios declared to the FIA technical delegate at or before the first Competition of the
2024 Championship.
During the Sprint Qualifying session:
Car numbers 01, 44, 81, 14, 23, 24 and 27 were weighed.
The weight distribution was checked on car numbers 01, 44, 81, 14, 23, 24 and 27.
The minimum distance between the adjacent rear wing sections at any longitudinal vertical plane was
checked on car numbers 81 and 23.
The uppermost rear wing element adjustable positions were checked on car numbers 81 and 23.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during the qualifying sessions were checked.
After the Sprint Qualifying session:
Car numbers 01, 63, 44, 16, 55, 04, 43, 22, 20 and 27 were weighed.
The minimum distance between the adjacent rear wing sections at any longitudinal vertical plane was
checked on car numbers 11, 63, 55, 04 and 14.
The uppermost rear wing element adjustable positions were checked on car numbers 11, 63, 55, 04
and 14.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the qualifying session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the qualifying session was checked on
all cars.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The partial load fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature was checked on all cars.
The exhaust fluid mass flow of all cars was checked.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the qualifying sessions.
Torque sensor software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
Torque sensor calibration checks have been carried out on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash board display configuration was not changed.
Custom software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
SECU software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 27.
All the fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 27.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
The following SECU software versions have been used by the teams during the qualifying sessions:
Team FIA Standard ECU
system version
Oracle Red Bull Racing SR1608
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS Formula One SR1606
Team
Scuderia Ferrari SR1607
McLaren Formula 1 Team SR1606
Aston Martin Aramco Formula One Team SR1606
BWT Alpine F1 Team SR1606
Williams Racing SR1606
VISA Cash App RB Formula One Team SR1608
Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber SR1607
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team SR1607
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2024 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate