2024 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
30 August - 01 September 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 30 August 2024
Time 10:45
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Italian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
In order to achieve the targeted range of
Circuit specific - aerobalance with the level of rear wing, the second
1 Front Wing Reduced chord of the last element.
Drag Range flap element has been trimmed to reduce the lift at
a given speed.
In order to achieve the targeted aerodynamic drag
Circuit specific -
2 Rear Wing Reduced chord of the last element. the flap chord has been trimmed to reduce the load
Drag Range
and therefore the drag.

Car Presentation – 2024 Italian Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Flap tip backed off and camber reduced to drop
Performance -
local downforce and drag; suitable for a high L/D
1 Rear Wing Subtle change to wing tip detail.
Drag reduction track like Monza.
Both chord and camber reduced on the flap to
Performance -
Reduced chord flap. drop local downforce and drag; suitable for a high
2 Rear Wing
Drag reduction L/D track like Monza.

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The depowered front wing flap provides the
Circuit specific - required aero balance range associated to the
1 Front Wing Lower Downforce Front Wing Flap design and trims
Balance Range optimum downforce level anticipated for Monza.
Different trims are available, to allow modulation
Minor optimisation of the nose camera position for
Performance - a better interaction between front wing upwash
2 Nose Nose camera repositioning
Flow Conditioning and front suspension legs, offering an improved
flow quality downstream
Minor update, a shorter mirror stay will be
Performance - introduced for this event. As for the nose camera
3 Mirror Shorter mirror stay
Flow Conditioning update, primary aim is to improve flow quality
towards the back of the car
Performance -
4 Floor Fences Redistribution of fences profiles and camber
Flow Conditioning
Performance -
5 Floor Body Reshaped boat and tunnel expansion Not event specific, this update features updated
Flow Conditioning
front floor fences targeting an improvement of the
losses travelling downstream. The reshaped boat
Performance - Reshaped floor edge and introduction of a cutout in
6 Floor Edge and tunnel expansion have been subsequently
Flow Conditioning plan view
reoptimized, together with the floor edge loading
and vortex shedding into the diffuser, which also
Performance -
7 Diffuser Redesigned boat keel and diffuser expansion receives the benefit of the deeper undercut.
Flow Conditioning
Coke/Engine Performance -
8 Deeper undercut
Cover Flow Conditioning
This update features depowered Top and Lower
Rear Wing profiles in order to adapt to Monza
Circuit specific -
9 Rear Wing Lower Downforce Top and Lower Rear Wing designs layout peculiarities and efficiency requirements.
Drag Range
Both a new design and the carry-over of last year’s
geometries (TRW and LRW) will be available.

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
To cope with the specific demands of this circuit,
the Front Corner geometry has been revised, with
Circuit specific -
1 Front Corner High Cooling Front Brake Duct the primary aim of increasing Brake Cooling
Cooling Range
performance while maintaining aerodynamic
efficiency.
The Front Wing Flap has been redesigned to extend
Circuit specific -
2 Front Wing New Front Wing Flap the available aerobalance range, which could be a
Balance Range
requirement given the specific circuit layout.
The new Sidepod results in an improvement in flow
Coke/Engine Performance -
3 New Sidepod Shape conditioning, beneficial for overall aerodynamic
Cover Flow Conditioning
performance, mainly on the rear of the car.

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The less aggressive design decreases the load on
Circuit specific - A new flap for the front wing with reduced
1 Front Wing the wing to balance the car with the lower loaded
Balance Range incidence.
rear wing which will be used at this event.
This beam wing has lower loading than the previous
Circuit specific - Smaller beam wing with a short chord second version and works in conjunction with the upper
2 Beam Wing
Drag Range element. wing for this event to achieve the required drag
range.
This is a less aggressive upper wing cascade with
Performance - Upper rear with less aggressive sections, this assy
3 Rear Wing lower load and drag than previous versions for use
Local Load has two options of flap.
at this circuit efficiency.

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This less loaded flap has been introduced to cover
Circuit specific - the required balance range when running lower
1 Front Wing Reprofiled front wing flap
Balance Range rear wing levels as it is typically the case at this
track.

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
*Williams Racing*
Updated Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works (min
Primary reason for update
component previous version 20, max 100 words)
Front Wing Part of the trailing edge of the front wing This reduces drag but also affects the local load and the
Endplate Circuit specific - Drag Range endplate is removed and the dive plane is flow structures from the front wing endplate. In Monza,
1
reoriented. this is an efficient way of improving lap time.
This revised geometry helps reduce local load on the
A smaller and reprofiled rearward flap for front wing to provide the total front load required to
Front Wing Circuit specific – Balance Range
2
the front wing is available balance the small rear wings that are used at this
circuit.
This optional trim will be used depending on how we
An optional trim is available to the rear wing want to balance downforce and drag during the
Rear Wing Circuit specific - Drag Range upper flap. This reduces the chord length of weekend. This trim simply reduces the area of the rear
3
the flap. wing and therefore provides less downforce and less
drag, which may be efficient for Monza

Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works
component for update version (min 20, max 100 words)
This smaller front flap reduces the amount of
Circuit specific - Shorter chord flap compared to previous low- overall load generated by the front wing assembly,
1 Front Wing
Balance Range balance components. to balance the low drag rear wings used at this
circuit.
Increased local downforce generation and
Performance -
2 Floor Body Profile changes to the main underfloor. management of the flow structures and losses as
Local Load
they travel downstream to minimise their impact.
Low downforce circuits demand more efficient,
Circuit specific - Reduced camber, chord & incidence upper elements less-loaded rear wings. Less cambered aerofoil
3 Rear Wing
Drag Range to achieve lower drag level target. sections at lower angles of incidence generate less
downforce & less induced drag.
Reduces the load generated by the Beam Wing to
Circuit specific -
4 Beam Wing Chord reduction to lower element. allow further tuning of wing level to suit low-
Drag Range
downforce circuits.
Performance - Improves the losses shed from the Halo and their
5 Halo Refinements to shape of Halo fairing.
Flow Conditioning impact downstream.
Removal of specific elements around the mirror
Circuit specific -
6 Mirrors Simplified geometry around the main mirror body. body which generate downforce & drag at a ratio
Drag Range
which is less efficient than that required at Monza.
Rear wing Front wing
Halo
Beam wing
Mirrors
Floor body
Car Presentation – Italian Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The smaller front wing flap reduced the load
Circuit specific - generated by the front wing to ensure that we can
1 Front Wing Low balance front wing flap design
Balance Range rebalance the low-drag rear wing introduced for
this circuit.
The revised forward floor body increases local load
Performance -
2 Floor Body Redesigned forward floor body while maintaining the cleanliness of the flow
Local Load
reaching the rear end.
This change helps to increase high energy flow into
Performance -
3 Diffuser Small change on diffuser sidewall design the diffuser and at the same time to better control
Flow Conditioning
the tyre jet.
This new low drag RW assembly reduces efficiently
Circuit specific -
4 Rear Wing Low drag rear wing assembly load. We can combine the main plane with a more
Drag Range
loaded optional flap to tune load and drag.

Car Presentation – 2024 Italian Grand Prix (Monza)
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
A specific Front Wing Flap design for low balance,
Circuit specific -
1 Front Wing Low camber Front Wing Flap to be coupled with the low drag Rear Wing
Balance Range
introduced in Spa.
This step completes the front suspension fairing
update, which started in Zandvoort together with
Front Performance - the introduction of the new Front Wing. The re-
2 Re-profiled Lower wishbone and pushrod fairing
Suspension Flow Conditioning profiling of the remaining suspension members
allows them to be more compliant with the
incoming flow.
