2024 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 June 2024
From The Stewards Document 18
To The Team Manager, Date 21 June 2024
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 16:33
The Stewards, having received a report from the Media Director, summoned (document 15) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 12:00
Fact Non-attendance at fan engagement activity.
InfringementBreach of Article 19.2 c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Team reprimand.
Reason The Stewards received a report from the Media Delegate that the the driver of Car 18
(Lance Stroll), did not attend the Friday fan engagement activity. The Stewards heard
from the team representative and the driver and determined that the driver was
indeed not present for the fan engagement activity.
The driver stated that he was having an appointment with his doctor at the time of the
fan activity due to some health issues arising this morning. This was confirmed by the
team. The team representative explained that they informed the Media Delegate as
soon as possible but the timeline to do so was very tight.
Whilst the Stewards have sympathy for the driver seeking immediate medical
attention in case of any health issues, they also note that the due process in such a
case is to contact the Chief Medial Officer and/or the Medical Delegate and to ask
for a medical exemption for not attending the fan activity as prescribed in Article 19.2
c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Considering the circumstances, the Stewards determine that a reprimand to the team
for not following the due process to seek a medical exemption is appropriate.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi David Domingo
The Stewards