2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 64
To The Team Manager, Date 15 September 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:13
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 53 & 54)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:33
Session Race
Fact Collision with Car 55 after Turn 2.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International
Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 11 (Sergio Perez), the driver of Car 55
(Carlos Sainz), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, and in-car video evidence.
Sainz and Perez made contact and crashed shortly after Turn 2 on lap 50. This is a
situation where a small touch had significant consequences. The Stewards reviewed
how the incident occurred, not the consequence.
Sainz passed Perez after turn 1 and was completely ahead at the apex of turn 2. With
a compromised exit by Sainz, Perez pulled to the inside of Sainz. Sainz reported that
he was aware of Perez to his inside. Perez, being slightly behind, was in a better
position to see the relative location of the cars. But as the two cars approached the
wall on the right at the exit of Turn 2, they were about 1m apart.
From this point and throughout the incident, neither driver steered erratically, and
indeed both kept their steering very neutral.
The Stewards checked the driving line of the drivers on pervious laps. Sainz was on
or close to his normal racing line, which forms a slight angle away from the right hand
wall. From the exit to the point of contact he move approximately one car width further
away from the wall. Perez moved approximately half a car width further away from the
same wall, being more parallel to the right hand wall.
It was thus apparent that while ahead, and having the right to drive his line, Sainz did
move slightly towards a car that he had limited vision of. At the same time, there was
nothing unusual about Perez’ line, but he could have done more to avoid the car that
he had better view of.
In conclusion, the Stewards deem this to be a racing incident with neither driver being
predominantly at fault, and take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin
The Stewards