2024 MONACO GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 25
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 15:17
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 22) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 13:39
Session Practice 3
Fact Driving unnecessarily slowly.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), team representative
and reviewed video, team radio and in-car video evidence and determined that Car 1
was on a fast lap and had to abort the lap due to traffic at Turn 17.
He was then told to take the chequered flag by the team. There remained some time
between the instruction and the chequered flag. He said that he also saw on the TV
screens that there were 20 seconds left till the end of the session. He then
proceeded to move off the racing line at the exit of Turn 19 and stayed to the extreme
left, well off the racing line till he took the chequered flag for the session. While doing
so, he travelled extremely slowly, at times at speeds as slow as 20 kph.
While what he did was not dangerous and did not impede other drivers, he was driving
unnecessarily slowly on the start finish straight and that is a breach of Article 33.4 of
the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. We therefore issue a warning to the
driver of Car 1 for this breach.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Matthew Selley
Derek Warwick Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards