2024 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
20 - 22 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 15
To The Team Manager, Date 20 September 2024
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:20
The Stewards summoned (document 13) and heard from the driver and team representatives, have
considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Session Thursday Press Conference
Fact Language during the FIA Thursday Driver Press Conference.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1.k of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Obligation to accomplish some work of public interest.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), team representative
and reviewed the audio transcript.
It is the policy of the FIA to ensure that language used in its public forums, such as
press conferences, meets generally accepted standards for all audiences and
broadcasts. In particular this is true of statements made by participants in the World
Championships and thus being role models both inside and outside the sport. This is
clear in the regulations of the FIA and has been reinforced through previous cases
brought before the Stewards in Formula One, in particular in Las Vegas in 2023.
The Stewards reviewed the transcript of the FIA Thursday Driver Press Conference
in Singapore and Max Verstappen, driver of car 1, used language to describe his car
at the Event in Azerbaijan which is generally considered “coarse, rude” or may
“cause offense” and is not considered suitable for broadcast. This is “Misconduct” as
defined in Art 20 of the International Sporting Code, and is a breach of Art 12.2.1.k.
The Stewards noted that the language was not directed at anyone or any group.
When summoned to the Stewards the driver explained that the word used is ordinary
in speech as he learned it, English not being his native language. While the Stewards
accept that this may be true, it is important for role models to learn to be mindful when
speaking in public forums, in particular when not under any particular pressure.
Verstappen apologized for his behaviour.
The Stewards note that significant fines have been levied for language offensive to or
directed at specific groups. This is not the case here. But, as this topic has been
raised before and is well known by the competitors, the Stewards determined to order
a greater penalty than previously and that Verstappen be “obliged to accomplish
some work of public interest” (Art. 12.4.1.d of the International Sporting Code), in co-
ordination with the Secretary General for Sport of the FIA.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Paul Ng
The Stewards