2024 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
30 August - 01 September 2024
From The Stewards Document 17
To The Team Manager, Date 30 August 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:05
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 12 & 13)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 13:36
Session Practice 1
Fact Car 20 impeded Car 55 in turn 7.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (MoneyGram Haas F1 Team) is fined €7,500.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 20 (Kevin Magnussen), the driver of Car
55 (Carlos Sainz), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The team radio of Car 20 revealed that no warning of the approach of Car 55 was
given until the very moment that Car 55 was immediately behind it. The driver of Car
20 explained that he checked his mirrors and because of the track layout at that point,
Car 55 was not visible. Further, between Turns 6 and 7 there was one other car
driving slowly between Cars 20 and 55, off the racing line.
The driver of Car 55 stated in evidence that the situation was not dangerous.
It was obvious from the GPS data, available to the Team, that Car 55 was rapidly
approaching and overtaking cars behind Car 20 and therefore adequate prior warning
should have been given to the driver of Car 20.
Normally, in accordance with our Penalty Guidelines, a formal warning would be
issued to the driver of Car 20 however in this case we consider that because the
track layout at this point did not facilitate visibility of Car 55’s approach, such a
warning is undeserved.
Impeding incidents in Free Practice are normally not investigated unless they are
potentially dangerous or involve an error by the Team. In this case, although the
Team made an error, the situation was not potentially dangerous and hence the
penalty on the Team is reduced to half that of the previous two precedents this year.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Johnny Herbert Valerio Brizzolari
The Stewards