2024 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
26 - 28 July 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 26 July 2024
Time 10:57
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2024 Belgian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – R14 Belgian Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – 2024 Belgian Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Performance - Increased rear camber in the diffuser roof region
1 Diffuser Subtle changes to diffuser roof profile.
increases local flow acceleration which in turn
Local Load
increase local downforce and drag.
Performance – The additional floor edge flap element drops the
Revised floor edge wing with additional flap element
2 Floor Edge
local pressure behind the fence systems which in
Local Load
added over forward section.
turn increases forward floor load.
Performance – Single element, low camber beam wing designed
3 Beam Wing
Single element beam wing. to reduce local downforce and drag; suitable for
Drag Reduction
high L/D track like Spa.
Reduced chord and camber front wing flap
Circuit Specific –
element reduces local front wing load to allow a
4 Front Wing
Low camber, small chord front wing flap.
Balance Range
sensible car balance to be achieved when running
low downforce rear wings (as Spa).
Performance – Removing the Halo fairing flap reduces local
5 Halo
Removed flap element from Halo fairing. downwash which in turns reduces drag by
Drag Reduction
altering the onset flow to the rear of the car.

Car Presentation – Belgian Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The depowered front wing flap provides the
Circuit specific - required aero balance range associated to the
1 Front Wing Lower Downforce Front Wing Flap design and trims
Balance Range optimum downforce level anticipated for Spa.
Different trims are available, to allow modulation
This update features depowered Top and Lower
Circuit specific -
2 Rear Wing Lower Downforce Top and Lower Rear Wing designs Rear Wing profiles in order to adapt to Spa layout
Drag Range
peculiarities and efficiency requirements

Car Presentation – Belgian Grand Prix
McLaren Racing
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
In anticipation of high isochronal circuits, a less
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing Low Downforce Rear Wing loaded Rear Wing assembly is introduced for this
Drag Range
event, with the aim of reducing drag efficiently.
With the target to increase the operating range of
Circuit specific - the newly introduced low downforce wing, an
2 Beam Wing Offloaded Beamwing
Drag Range offloaded Beam Wing has been designed to trade
downforce and drag efficiently.
The rear brake duct furniture has been updated,
Circuit specific -
3 Rear Corner Low Drag Rear Brake Duct furniture adapting to the low downforce Rear Wing and
Drag Range
Beam Wing configuration brought to this event.

Car Presentation – Belgian Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation - Belgian Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous
Brief description on how the update works
component for update version
Compared to previous specification, the new front
Performance - wing features different profiles to give the ability to
1 Front Wing Reprofiled front wing flap elements.
Local Load cover the full balance range required for lower
downforce races.
As part of our normal development cycle, this new
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - engine cover is designed to improve our overall
2
Redesigned engine cover.
Cover Cooling Range cooling efficiency by reviewing the channelling of
the internal airflow.
As part of our normal development cycle, this new
rear corner aims at giving more authority on the
Circuit specific -
3 Rear Corner New inlet and exit ducts with new furniture. management of our rear brake temperature
Cooling Range
through a wider inlet duct as well as a larger exit
duct.
The updated single element wing offers a small
Circuit specific - reduction in drag and will improve the aerodynamic
4 Beam Wing New reprofiled single element rear beam wing.
Drag Range efficiency of the car overall to extend our rear wing
and beam wing range.
At a given speed, the wing has less aerodynamic
Circuit specific - A lower camber rear wing assembly to suit the
5 Rear Wing load and therefore drag than the rear wings used in
Drag Range lift/drag requirements
previous events
Together with the above mentioned sidepod and the engine
6 Performance - New wing mirror stay geometry.
Mirror cover update we reprofiled the mirror stays to achieve better
Flow Conditioning flow control and flow quality towards the rear of the car

Car Presentation - Belgian Grand Prix
WILLIAMS RACING
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Belgian Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works
component for update version (min 20, max 100 words)
The winglets on the rear corner are replaced with a
Circuit specific - different arrangement, efficiently reducing
1 Rear Corner Modified winglet profiles.
Drag Range downforce & drag and better suited to Spa & other
low downforce circuits.
The low incidence biplane configuration efficiently
Circuit specific - Biplane configuration with low incidence elements reduces load & drag for low downforce circuits,
2 Beam Wing
Drag Range for use with certain wing levels. whilst continuing to provide low pressure for the
diffuser.
Low downforce circuits demand more efficient,
Circuit specific - Reduced camber, chord & incidence upper elements less-loaded rear wings. Less cambered aerofoil
3 Rear Wing
Drag Range to achieve lower drag level target. sections at lower angles of incidence generate less
downforce & less induced drag.
Rear corner
Rear wing
Beam wing
Car Presentation – 2024 Belgian Grand Prix
KICK F1 Team Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The new mirror stays were designed to provide
Performance -
1 Mirror Updated mirror geometry better flow control and flow quality for the rear end
Local Load
of the car.
The reworked floor fences deliver a local load step
Performance -
2 Floor fence Reworked floor fences while maintaining good flow quality towards the
Drag reduction
end of the car.
The smaller front flap reduces the load generated
Performance -
3 Front wing Shorter chord flap by the front wing to ensure that we can balance the
Flow Conditioning
low-drag rear wing introduced for this circuit.
The re-profiled rear wing upper flap was designed
Performance - for the low drag requirements seen in Spa. The new
4 Rear wing Redesigned upper flap
Mechanical Setup shape improves the aerodynamic efficiency of the
car.
Together with the new upper flap mentioned
above, the new beam wing is another step of
5 Beam Wing Reliability Redesigned beam wing profile
aerodynamic efficiency designed specifically for low
drag tracks like Spa.

Car Presentation – 2024 Belgian Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
This is a low drag Rear Wing configuration: it
Performance - reduces the local load in an efficient way. In order
1 Rear Wing Less cambered Rear Wing profiles
Drag reduction to tune the drag level this Rear Wing is compatible
with different Lower Beam options.
This lower beam option reduces the camber of the
Performance -
2 Beam Wing Less cambered Lower Beam profiles available. profiles, allowing a further tuning option of the
Drag reduction
overall drag level of the car.
