2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The Stewards Document 52
To The Team Manager, Date 04 May 2024
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:22
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 12:27
Session Sprint
Fact Leaving the track and gaining a lasting advantage.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision 10 second time penalty.
3 penalty points (total of 8 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards reviewed video evidence and found that Car 20 braked late at turn 11
and went off the track. This resulted in Car 44, with whom Car 20 was fighting for
position on track, having to leave the track as well. Car 44 got back to the track
quickly but Car 20 continued off track and thereby stayed ahead of Car 44.
This was the third instance of Car 20 leaving the track and gaining a lasting
advantage. We considered the penalty guidelines for such infringements which
provide a baseline of a 10 second penalty with zero penalty points.
However, the guidelines also state:
“The points indicated are intended to be the norm for a particular offence. The
Stewards may vary these, taking into account mitigating or aggravating
circumstances. However, the authority of the Stewards to increase the points
assessed is intended to be used only in exceptional circumstances.”
Taking into account the fact that this was the third instance of leaving the track and
gaining an advantage in a single session, which we considered to be an aggravating
circumstance, we impose 3 penalty points.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Andrew Mallalieu
Vitantonio Liuzzi Dennis Dean
The Stewards