2024 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 October 2024
From The Stewards Document 75
To All Teams, All Officials Date 20 October 2024
Time 20:10
Title Infringement - Organiser and Promoter - Track Invasion
Description Infringement - Organiser and Promoter - Track Invasion
Enclosed USA DOC 75 - Infringement - Organiser & Promoter.pdf
Garry Connelly Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Dennis Dean
The Stewards
2024 U S G P
NITED TATES RAND RIX
18 – 20 October 2024
From The Stewards Document 75
To All Officials, All Teams Date 20 October 2024
Time 20:10
The Stewards, having received a report from the FIA Race Director and Safety Delegate, having
summoned (Document 70) and heard representatives of the Promoter (Circuit of the Americas
LLC), the Sporting Organiser (US Race Management LLC) and the FIA, and having viewed video
evidence, have considered the following matter and determine the following:
Time 15:43
Session Race
Fact A large group of spectators, estimated at approximately 200 people, in the
grandstand alongside pit straight, climbed a small fence and dropped around
2 metres to the ground between the grandstand and the track debris fencing.
They then went under the debris fencing and climbed over the trackside wall
(approximately 1 metre high) and then merged onto the main straight. All this
occurred whilst the competing cars were still on track completing their cool
down lap after the chequered flag.
Offence Breach of Article 12.2.1.h of the 2024 FIA International Sporting Code i.e.
failure to take reasonable measures thus resulting in an unsafe situation.
Reasons:
1. The Stewards heard from Messrs Regan Holley and Jake Woese representing the Promoter,
Mr Tim Mayer representing US Race Management and Messrs Nikolas Tombazis, Tim Malyon
and Niels Wittich representing the FIA.
2. Mr Dennis Dean, the ASN steward, was not considered to have a conflict of interest as he had
no role in either the promoting body nor the sporting organiser.
3. It was noted that there had been no track incursions at this circuit in its 12-year history of
Formula 1 events.
4. It was noted however that crowd behaviour is an evolving issue, and that public safety
precautions should evolve accordingly. It is not unreasonable to expect that the incursion which
occurred could have been foreseen.
5. The Promoter was issued a track license by the FIA.
6. There is an agreement between the Promoter and US Race Management that places
responsibility for security of the public under the control of the Promoter.
7. The Stewards note that the Safety Plan for the allowance of the public onto the track, was
actually well implemented.
8. However notwithstanding, the incursion occurred due to the failure to identify a potential
incursion area that was not addressed in that Safety Plan.
9. The Stewards note the submission by the FIA that unlike some previous track incursions at
other circuits, it wished to have this matter dealt with by the Stewards of the Event. Mr Mayer
agreed with this request on behalf of the Sporting Organiser and the Promoter.
10. Accordingly, the Stewards determine that:
a. The Promoter breached Article 12.2.1.h of the 2024 FIA International Sporting Code
b. The Promoter is required, by December 31 2024, to submit to the FIA a formal
remediation plan that, in the opinion of the FIA, adequately addresses this issue but also
assesses whether other potential incursion areas exist around the circuit.
c. There have now been a number of track incursions in recent times and that the safety of
the public is of paramount importance to the sport.
d. In view of the severity of the incursion, a fine of €500,000 is imposed on the Promoter.
e. In view of the fact this is the first case of its kind at this circuit, €350,000 of the fine is
suspended until December 31 2026 on the basis that between now and that date, there
are no further track incursions at this circuit during any FIA Championship Event.
f. The Stewards recommend to the FIA that the proceeds of the unsuspended portion of
the fine be dedicated to additional motorsport safety by the FIA Safety Department.
All parties are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial
and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant
regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Loïc Bacquelaine
Derek Warwick Dennis Dean
The Stewards