2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 May 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 72
To All Teams, All Officials Date 05 May 2024
Time 11:08
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed 2024 Miami Grand Prix - Post-Race Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2024 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
03 – 05 May 2024
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 05 May 2024
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-RACE INTERVIEWS & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should stop on the grid where they will find
the boards from 1,2,3.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no team
PR personnel. Driver physios must wait inside the race control building to be escorted to the
cool down room following the instructions given to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the
sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver
may also be permitted in the designated area. All other photographers must remain outside of the
designated area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
• Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
• The post-race interviews will take place in the pit lane, and the interviewer will be selected by the
Commercial Rights Holder.
• Drivers must not interfere with parc fermé protocols in any way.
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted via golf buggy
to the cool down room located close to the podium on the opposite side of the stadium. No other
team personnel will be permitted to use the driver golf buggies. Team personnel must walk to the
podium following the route indicated by local event staff.
• Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
• The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
• The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
1
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
• Each driver or representative must accept their trophy and presentations will take place in the
following order:
Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o
FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o
A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o
2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o
3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen, located in the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their press officers.
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the ground floor of the stadium.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2024 Miami Grand Prix Parc Ferme – Post-Race
AWAITING BUGGIES
FOR TOP 3 DRIVERS TO
GO TO THE POIDUM
Pirelli
FIA Garages Race Control
Hot Laps
Photographers
waiting area
Backdrop
FIA
Remaining cars
Scales
parked here
Pit Wall Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
2nd
E
N
IL 1st
H
S
TTVV RRFF IN
CCaammeerraammaann
IF
3rd
Version 1 – 2 May 2024