2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
01 - 03 November 2024
From The Stewards Document 88
To The Team Manager, Date 03 November 2024
Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 19:34
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 77) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 30 - Liam Lawson
Competitor Visa Cash App RB F1 Team
Time 13:13
Session Race
Fact The driver left the grid after the Aborted Start signal had been given.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 47.1 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video evidence.
The FIA Formula One Race Director initiated the Aborted Start procedure indicating
that the drivers should not leave the grid. This message was necessary as there was
a car off track in Turn 4 (STR) that needed to be recovered. Although the signal was
appropriately given the light panel illuminated as prescribed, and the teams notified by
the messaging system, the driver immediately ahead of LAW left the grid and
proceeded on a lap. In reaction to this LAW also left the grid in breach of the
regulations.
At some point the Race Director realizing that for practical reasons all cars would
now need to do an extra formation lap gave an instruction to the teams for all cars to
proceed and return to the grid to follow the correct aborted start procedure.
In the opinion of the Stewards although the driver breached the regulation this was
influenced by the driver ahead of him and as such he was not predominately
responsible for the breach. As such the stewards decide to take no further action
having held the driver immediately ahead of him at fault.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu
Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti
The Stewards