2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 38
To All Teams, All Officials Date 04 November 2023
Time 07:50
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed BRA DOC 38 - Post-Sprint Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 38
To All Officials, All Teams Date 04 November 2023
Time 07:50
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT INTERVIEW PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane where they will
find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved TV
crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this designated
area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media
Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the Parc
Fermé area at this time. There will be a designated area where the TV crews and approved
photographers must remain for the duration of the Parc Fermé procedure.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews and presentation will take place in this
designated area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the lower ground level of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference(s), the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located
at the pit entry end of the paddock, and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should
wait to collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the
Sprint must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their TV
interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back into
the paddock.
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
1
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
tnirpS
–
emreF
craP
xirP
dnarG
(cid:381)(cid:367)(cid:437)(cid:258)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:262)(cid:94)
3202
1
0
mudioP
PORDKCAB
SELACS
dr3
srehsinif
gniniameR
ts1
ereh
dekrap
dn2
llaW
tiP
3202rebmevoN(cid:22)0
–(cid:20)(cid:17)1
noisreV
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
DEVORPPA
AIDEM