2023 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
17 - 19 March 2023
From The Stewards Document 51
To The Team Manager, Date 20 March 2023
Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 00:36
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 14 - Fernando Alonso
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 20:33
Session Race
Fact Failure to serve a penalty during a pit stop.
Offence Breach of Article 54.4(c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision 10 second time penalty
Reason Car 14 had come into the pits during the safety car period to serve the 5 second
penalty that was imposed on Car 14 for being out of position at the starting grid.
As is customary, race control aided by the Remote Operations Centre (ROC) in
Geneva examined whether Car 14 served its penalty in accordance with the
regulations. The Stewards were informed that both race control and ROC had
determined that the penalty had been properly served. The stewards did not examine
the matter further thereafter.
Subsequently, at the last lap of the race, the Stewards received a report from race
control that they considered that the penalty was not properly served by CAR 14 and
they asked the Stewards to investigate the matter. The matter was reported to race
control by ROC.
The Stewards were shown video evidence of how Car 14 served the penalty by the
Race Director and the Sporting Director. They stated that what was agreed at the
SAC meetings with the teams was that no part of the car could be touched while a
penalty was being served as this would constitute working on the car.
In this case, it was clear, that the car was touched by the rear jack. Based on the
representation made to the Stewards that there was an agreed position that touching
the car would amount to “working” on the car, the Stewards decided to impose a
penalty.
Article 54.4(e) gives the Stewards the discretion to disqualify a car for failure to
comply with Article 54.4(c). However, given that no work was done while the car was
touched, we considered that disqualification would be too harsh an outcome. In the
circumstances, the Stewards imposed a 10s penalty on Car 14.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Nish Shetty Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Hassan Alabdali
The Stewards