2023 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
30 June - 02 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 01 July 2023
Time 12:15
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed AUT DOC 34 - Post-Sprint Procedures .pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 A G P
USTRIAN RAND RIX
30 June – 02 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 34
To All Officials, All Teams Date 01 July 2023
Time 12:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT INTERVIEW PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag, the top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane where they will
find the boards from 1,2,3 in front of the FIA garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews will take place in this designated area.
The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate across the track to the FIA
Press Conference located on the ground floor of the Media Centre Building on the opposite side of the
track to the paddock.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located in
at the Pit Entry end of the paddock, and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should
wait to collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the
Sprint must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their TV
interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back into
the paddock.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
1
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Austrian Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Sprint
5 4 3 2 1
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
PPooddiiuumm
2nd FIA SCALES
Remaining cars
1st
F 3rd parked here
e
n
c
e
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann
Pit Wall Pit Wall
PPPhhhoootttooogggrrraaappphhheeerrrsss
Version 1 – 29 June 2023