2023 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
30 June - 02 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 41
To The Team Manager, Date 01 July 2023
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 14:52
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 37) and
heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the
following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 12:26
Session Sprint Shootout
Fact The left rear wheel of Car 27 ran over the removed left front wheel as the car was
released from the Pitstop.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.14 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (MoneyGram Haas F1 Team) is fined €5,000 – Suspended until the
end of the 2023 Formula One Championship on condition there is no further breach
of Article 34.14 a) by the Team.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video and in-car
video evidence.
The team representative presented a comprehensive report of the investigations
carried out by the team concerning the incident. It was clear that this was an
unfortunate and unique incident in which the removed front left wheel was held too
close to the car and the driver also took a sharper angle of departure due to the car
controller of the next team in the pit lane, standing further out towards the fast lane
than normal.
The Stewards were impressed with the quality of the team investigations and report,
and in particular, the corrective actions proposed to avoid a similar incident in the
future. These corrective actions involve a change of procedures and crew
positioning during a pitstop.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Walter Jobst
The Stewards