2023 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 28 May 2023
From The Stewards Document 40
To The Team Manager, Date 27 May 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:48
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 17:10
Session Qualifying
Fact Unnecessary impeding of Car 4 by Car 16 in turn 9.
Infringment Breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 6 (Charles Leclerc), the driver of Car 4​​
(Lando Norris), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing data, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Leclerc had finished his final lap of Q3 and was in the Turn 4 through Turn 10
complex. Norris was on a fast lap and caught Leclerc in the middle of the tunnel and
was clearly impeded.
Both drivers agreed that there was little that Leclerc could have safely done in the
tunnel to avoid impeding Norris, given the difficulty in vision due to the light entering
and in the tunnel and the change of lines from one side of the tunnel to the other. In
fact, the Stewards observed that Leclerc reacted in a sensible way to a blue flag
displayed by the marshals, but at this point it was too late.
However, the Stewards reviewed team radio, and Leclerc’s team failed to give him
any warning about Norris’ approach until Norris was already directly behind him.
Further, the discussion during the preceding portion of the track was entirely about
competing drivers, not the traffic behind, which is a critical task at this track.
The Stewards believe that there is much that Leclerc could have done prior to the
tunnel to avoid the impeding had he received warning from the team at an appropriate
time, especially considering that Norris’ approach was clear on the marshalling
system. Thus, the Stewards consider that the impeding was unnecessary.
The Stewards reviewed all the preceding unnecessarily impeding penalties in the past
few years. In every case, the actions, or inaction of the team did not mitigate the
unnecessary impeding. Thus the Stewards impose the usual penalty of a three grid
drop.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Tim Mayer Felix Holter
Danny Sullivan Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards