2023 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 3
To All Teams, All Officials Date 27 July 2023
Time 16:25
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed 2023 Belgian Grand Prix - Event Notes.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2023 B G P
ELGIAN RAND RIX
28 – 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 3
To All Officials, All Teams Date 27 July 2023
Time 16:25
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags
3.1 Single waved: Drivers reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be clear that
a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected to have
braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
3.2 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time. Furthermore, during qualifying and sprint shootout any driver
in a double yellow sector will have that lap time cancelled.
3.3 Double Waved during VSC or SC: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling
sector during a VSC or SC, in addition to the requirements in 3.2 above, must remain positive of the
SECU delta time in the sector concerned.
4) Laps during Qualifying, Sprint Shootout and Reconnaissance Laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying, Sprint Shootout or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the sprint
or the race, drivers must stay below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines
shown on the pit lane map.
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the first practice session.
5) Article 55.14
“In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point
at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no erratic
acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede the
restart”.
1
6) Parc Fermé
6.1 The Parc Fermé cameras must be always uncovered and operational during the Event.
6.2 No more than three (3) team personnel per car are permitted into the Parc Fermé area for the sole
purpose of fitting cooling fans and any work required by the FIA.
7) Lapping during the sprint and the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster driver past at the first
available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to ensure that the
point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability of marshals
to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
8) Article 19.4
In accordance with the provisions of Article 19.4 a), upon permission given by the Technical
Delegate, it is considered acceptable to connect the umbilical to the cars and close the HV
contactors (TR 5.26.5) for the sole purpose of checking the car ERS safety status, during the pre-
race car display period.
Event Specific Instructions
9) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1 b), this Event is an Open Event.
10) FIA Outside Scales Times
Should the outside scales be set-up at the pit-lane entrance, these will be available for teams to use
at any time outside the curfew times and the Parc Fermé cover-up times, except for the 30 minutes
preceding the start of the Qualifying session and Sprint shootout and if there are support
competitions using the pit lane.
11) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the relevant and
active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of this Index file
(“2023 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 3 – 2023-05-12.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can be found on
the FIA SFTP site.
Competitors are hereby required to ensure compliance with these directives for the safe and orderly
conduct of the Event.
2
12) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than (3) three meters from the garages.
It is not permitted to push cars to or from the weighing area at any time a support category is in the
pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
13) Positioning of the car on track during Free Practice, Qualifying and Sprint Shootout
To help mitigate any differences in speed, cars on out or slow laps are requested to stay clearly
offline where possible between Turns 16 and 18.
14) Practice starts
14.1 Practice starts may be carried out on the RHS of the pit exit road after Turn 1 and before SC2 line.
During this time any driver passing a car which has stopped to carry out a practice start may cross
the white line that referred to in Article 15 below.
14.2 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason.
14.3 Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of the free practice session. Any car on the
track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of entering the
pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
14.4 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
14.5 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
15) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
16) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 5, 6, 7
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 19, 1, 2
17) Filming Activities
As previously notified to all competitors, there will be filming activities during this Event. With respect
to these activities the personnel and equipment needed for the filming have been authorized by the
FIA and its delegates, as required under the various provisions of the Sporting Regulations.
18) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges. During
Qualifying, Sprint Shootout, Sprint and the Race, each time a driver fails to negotiate with the track
limits, this will result in that lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.
3
19) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences.
20) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
21) Removing cars from the grid
Cars will be removed through the gate in the pit wall adjacent to grid position 1.
22) Race Suspension
22.1 In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane in front of the pit exit lights.
22.2 The following procedure for resuming a race with a standing start procedure will apply for the Race
in Spa-Francorchamps:
• 10 Minutes Signal
• 5 Minutes Signal
• 3 Minutes Signal
• 2 Minutes - lapped cars will leave the pit lane to complete one lap and return to the pit lane
• 1 Minute Signal
• 15 Seconds Signal
• Pit exit green light - SC will leave the pit lane with its lights on, lights will be extinguished after
1 second.
• 1 Minute after the SC has left the pit lane, all drivers leave the pit lane and proceed to the
grid without overtaking.
• Standing Start Procedure
23) Car number light panels for the start
On the left-hand side of the grid.
24) Post-sprint and Post-race parc fermé
Drivers must not complete a full slowing down lap but must enter the pit lane using the pit exit and
proceed slowly down the pit lane in the wrong direction. All cars will then be stopped in the weighing
area.
25) Guest access to the grid
For the start of the sprint and the race and after the end of the sprint and the race, teams are
responsible to ensure that guests do not cross the teams’ garages and access the pit lane before
all cars are on the grid or have reached Parc Fermé.
26) Changes to the Circuit
• Resurfacing of the run-off behind and after the kerb in Turn 2 on LHS.
• Rebuilding of the kerb in Turn 2 on LHS.
• Renewal of the grass verge from Turn 1 until Turn 2 on LHS.
• Renewal of the grass verge in Turn 5 on LHS.
• Renewal of the grass verge in Turn 8 on RHS.
• Renewal of the grass verge in Turn 9 LHS and between Turn 9 and Turn 10 on RHS.
• Renewal of the grass verge in Turn 14 on RHS.
27) Tyre Checking
With the continuing developments to TPMS and GMS systems, the FIA will switch to TPMS as the
primary tool for the purpose of policing tyre usage i.e. during all sessions of this Competition there
4
will be no mandatory requirement to present tyres for scanning when removed from a car. This
applies to Dry, Intermediate and Wet tyres.
The FIA reserves the right to reintroduce tyre scanning at any time.
28) Tyre Usage
In order to avoid the acknowledged unintended consequence whereby in certain situations at
Sprint events it becomes attractive to run intermediate tyres on a dry track, the following
amendment to Article 30.5.h of the Formula 1 Sporting Regulations is made.
Consultation has occurred with the Commercial Rights Holder, Stewards and Teams.
The agreement of the FIA, the Commercial Rights Holder and all Competitors has been obtained in
accordance with Article 1.4.
Accordingly, my Decision is that Article 30.5 h) iv) be modified to read as follows:
Article 30.5h iv revised wording
In the period SQ3 of the sprint shootout, up to one set of dry-weather tyres may be used, and this
must only be a new set of the soft specification.
Article 1.4 for ease of reference
Until 01 August 2023, for Competitions where a sprint session is scheduled, and in exceptional
circumstances only, the FIA may implement temporary changes to Articles 30.5.h, 37.4, 39, 40.9,
and 42 of these Sporting Regulations. Any such changes:
a) May only be made with the agreement of the FIA, the Commercial Rights Holder and at least
eight (8) Competitors;
b) Must address unintended issues that have arisen as result of the changes to these Sporting
Regulations approved by the WMSC in April 2023;
c) Must be solely intended to ensure sporting fairness or to avoid organisational issues;
d) May only apply at the Competition during which the matters in question arose; and
e) Will be communicated to the Competitors via the Competition Notes issued by the Race
Director.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5