2023 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
20 - 22 October 2023
From The Stewards Document 65
To The Team Manager, Date 22 October 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:18
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 17:28
Session Race
Fact The rear skid in the area defined in the Technical Delegate’s report was outside the
thresholds outlined in Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations.
InfringementBreach of Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations.
Decision Car 16 is disqualified from the Race (Art. 12.4.1.m of the FIA International Sporting
Code). The other competitors move up in the classification.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representatives of Car 16, the Technical
Delegate, the FIA Single Seater Director and the FIA Single Seater Technical
Director.
During the hearing the team acknowleged that the measurement performed by the
FIA Technical Team was correct and stated that the high wear on the skid pads was
probably a result of the unique combination of the bumpy track and the Sprint race
schedule that minimized the time to set up and check the car before the race.
The Stewards note that the onus is on the competitor to ensure that the car is in
compliance with the regulations at all times during an event. In this particular case, the
rear skid in the area defined in the Technical Delegate’s report was outside of the
thresholds outlined in Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations,
which includes a tolerance for wear. Therefore, the standard penalty for a breach of
the Technical Regulations is imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Dennis Dean
The Stewards