2023 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 24
To The Team Manager, Date 24 November 2023
Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 17:01
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 19 & 20)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 14:25
Session Practice 1
Fact Driving unnecessarily slowly between Turns 15 and 16.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 e) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision The competitor (Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 18 (Lance Stroll), the driver of Car 42
(Frederik Vesti), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver was unable to see the approaching car in his mirrors and the team failed to
give him adequate warning – effectively less than one second. The driver did remain
on his line and hence there was no risk of collision however the team failed to keep
him properly informed of the approach of Car 42.
On a circuit where there are numerous corners where rearwards visibility is very
limited and there is the potential for high speed deltas between those on preparation
laps and push laps, it is essential that teams effectively communicate the approach of
other cars to their drivers. For this reason, a fine for the team is appropriate.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mohamed Al Hashmi
The Stewards