2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 03 November 2023
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 19:24
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 26) and
heard from the driver and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 15:31
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 10 was driving slowly in the pit exit and was not as far to the left as possible.
InfringementBreaches of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article
12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with Race Director’s
Event Note (item 14, document 4).
Decision Drop of 2 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 0 (Pierre Gasly), the team
representative and reviewed in-car video evidence.
In order to avoid situations like the ones that occurred in Mexico, the Race Director’s
Event Notes for this event contained a specific clause (item 14) stipulating that it was
permitted to go slow in the pit exit to create a gap before crossing the SC2 line,
however, by doing so, a driver must stay as far to the left as possible to allow other
drivers to pass on the right side.
GAS was exiting the pits, preparing for an out-lap. GAS went slow to create a gap for
a clear lap, but did not manage to stay completely to the left. As a result, following
car(s) were not able to overtake, as intended by the Race Director’s instructions.
This clearly violates the wording and the spirit of item 14 of the Race Director’s Event
Notes.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards