2023 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 62
To The Team Manager, Date 26 November 2023
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 21:24
The Stewards summoned (document 58) and heard from the driver and team representative, have
considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 18:31
Session Race
Fact Statements made over team radio.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 k) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Formal warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 11 (Sergio Perez), the team
representative and reviewed team radio.
The Stewards explained to the driver that they had no issue with someone
disagreeing with their decisions, however comments that amount to personal insults
are a breach of the International Sporting Code.
The Stewards note that they are obviously conflicted in this matter as they were the
subject of the radio statements and that normally this would be referred to the next
panel of Stewards however as this is the final event of the season, the matter needed
to be dealt with here.
The driver made a genuine and sincere apology to each of the Stewards and
explained that he made the comments in the heat of the moment and did not consider
the fact that they would be broadcast, and the impact of that. He expressed his
regret that his comments caused offence to anyone or harm to the sport, which he
said he was concerned to avoid. The Stewards accept his statements and accept his
apology.
The Stewards also note that the driver is not known for making such comments and
has always been extremely respectful in Stewards hearings. He was also reminded
that the Stewards are always available to explain their decisions when requested by a
driver or team representative.
The driver, team manager and the Stewards had a constructive discussion about the
use and broadcast of team radio messages. The incident itself was also reviewed in
detail with the driver and although he still disagreed with the Decision he stated he
could understand the Stewards’ perspective of the incident.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mohamed Al Hashmi
The Stewards