2023 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 55
To All Teams, All Officials Date 02 April 2023
Time 23:10
Title Decision - AGPC
Description Decision - AGPC
Enclosed AUS DOC 55 - Decision - AGPC.pdf
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards
2023 A G P
USTRALIAN RAND RIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 55
To The Australian Grand Prix Corporation Date 02 April 2023
Time 23:10
The Stewards, having received a report from the FIA Sporting Delegate and the Race Director,
having examined video evidence, summoned and heard representatives of the Australian Grand
Prix Corporation (the « Promoter »), have considered the following matter, and determine the
following:
Time 17:35
Session Race
Fact A large group of spectators managed to break the security lines and accessed the
track while the race was still ongoing. The security measures and the protocols
which were expected to be in place for the Event were not enforced resulting in an
unsafe environment for the spectators, drivers and race officials. Furthermore,
spectators were also able to reach Car n° 27, which was parked at exit of Turn 2
and which still had its light flashing red (i.e. the car was in an unsafe condition with
possible electrical discharge). All of this presented significant danger to the
spectators ; race officials and the drivers.
Offence Breach of Article 12.2.1.h of the 2023 FIA International Sporting Code (i.e.
failure to take reasonable measures, thus resulting in an unsafe situation).
Reasoned Decision
1. The Stewards heard from representatives from the Promoter and from the FIA and
considered the video evidence available on the above facts.
2. The Promoter candidly admitted the failures in terms of the security protocols and
safety measures. The Promoter concurred with the FIA Sporting Delegate and the
Race Director report and agreed that this was an unacceptable situation that could
have had disastrous consequences.
3. The Promoter stated, in mitigation, that they would conduct a thorough
investigation and take steps to remediate in time for the next event in Australia.
4. In the circumstances, the Stewards hereby determine that:
a. The Promoter breached Article 12.2.1.h of the 2023 FIA International
Sporting Code.
b. the Promoter urgently present a formal remediation plan to the FIA that
adequately addresses the serious concerns above.
c. In this regard, the Promoter, in an email to the Stewards, has proposed
that they take the following steps to do so :
“We therefore propose the following draft remedies to actively take steps to
ensure there will be no further transgressions:
a. A comprehensive review of the early track breach and the
marshals protecting the Hulkenberg car will be conducted.
b. A comprehensive review of the Plan will be conducted.
c. Results and findings of these reviews and detailed
recommendations will be documented and provided to the FIA
via the ASN for comment and endorsement, as appropriate.
d. The above reviews will include consulting with Victoria Police,
Formula 1, the FIA and other aforementioned stakeholders”
d. The Promoter has asked that they be given until 30th June 2023 to carry
out the above.
5. As this relates to serious issues around safety and security, the Stewards hereby
request the FIA to review and comment on whether the abovementioned steps are
adequate to address the concerns raised and to state if any further measure(s)
need to be taken, as soon as possible. This should be done directly with the
Promoter. The FIA should state a deadline for the same and comment on whether
the Promoter’s requested deadline is acceptable.
6. In addition, the Stewards hereby formally refer this incident to the FIA World Motor
Sports Council for a further investigation to determine whether any additional steps
need to be taken or penalties applied beyond the remediation plan presented by
the Promoter (and reviewed by the FIA) to ensure the safe and orderly conduct of
future events in Australia.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial
and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards