2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 67
To All Teams, All Officials Date 05 November 2023
Time 18:25
Title Decision - São Paulo F1 Organisation
Description Decision - São Paulo F1 Organisation
Enclosed BRA DOC 67 - Promotor Decision.pdf
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 67
To All Officials, All Teams Date 05 November 2023
Time 18:25
The Stewards, having received a report from the FIA Sporting Delegate and the Race Director,
having examined video evidence, summoned and heard representatives of the São Paulo F1
Organisation (the « SPF1 »), have considered the following matter, and determine the following:
Time 16:00
Session Race
Fact A large group of spectators managed to break the security lines and accessed the
run off area at turn 1 while the race was finishing and cars were still on track. The
security measures and/or security officers and/or equipment which were expected
to be in place for the Event were not enforced and/or were not sufficient resulting in
an unsafe environment for the spectators and drivers.
Offence Breach of Article 12.2.1.h of the 2023 FIA International Sporting Code (i.e.
failure to take reasonable measures, thus resulting in an unsafe situation).
Reasoned Decision
1. The Stewards heard from representatives from SPF1 and from the FIA and
considered the video evidence available on the above facts.
2. SPF1 candidly admitted the failures in terms of the security protocols and safety
measures. SPF1 concurred with the FIA Sporting Delegate and the Race Director
report and agreed that comparable circumstances already occurred in Brazil and
that this was an unacceptable situation which could have had disastrous
consequences.
3. SPF1 stated, in mitigation, that they would conduct a thorough investigation and
take steps to remediate in time for the next event in Brazil.
4. In the circumstances, the Stewards hereby determine that:
a. SPF1 breached Article 12.2.1.h of the 2023 FIA International Sporting
Code.
b. SPF1 urgently (i.e. at the latest by 30th January 2024) present a formal
remediation plan to the FIA that adequately addresses the serious
concerns above.
5. As this relates to serious issues around safety and security, the Stewards hereby
request the FIA to review and comment on whether the abovementioned steps are
adequate to address the concerns raised and to state if any further measure(s)
need to be taken, as soon as possible. This should be done directly with SPF1.
6. In addition, the Stewards hereby formally refer this incident to the FIA World Motor
Sports Council for a further investigation to determine whether any additional steps
need to be taken or penalties applied beyond the remediation plan presented by
SPF1 (and reviewed by the FIA) to ensure the safe and orderly conduct of future
events in Brazil.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards