2023 MEXICO CITY GRAND PRIX
27 - 29 October 2023
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 28 October 2023
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 18:40
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 25) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 15:14
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 1 drove very slowly at the Pit Exit and in doing so, unnecessarily impeded the
cars behind.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and
Article 12.2.1.i of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), the team
representative, the Race Director and the Single-Seater Sporting Director and
reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video and in-car video evidence.
The Stewards noted in particular the evidence of the drivers of Car 1, 14 and 63 and
also noted that several other cars slowed either at the pit exit or in the pit road leading
up to the SC2 line.
The Stewards consider that the entire set of incidents occurred as a direct result of
the implementation of the minimum lap time between SC2 and SC1 which is designed
(correctly so, in our view) to avoid dangerous backing-up of cars on the circuit during
Qualification. We note that there are contrary requirements on drivers in that they
must respect the minimum time, they are attempting to create manageable gaps to
cars in front, yet they are also required to avoid unnecessarily stopping at the pit exit
or driving unnecessarily slowly.
It was also particularly noted that the Race Director accepted that these contrary
requirements exist. All parties including the Stewards are firmly of the view that it is
better to have the potential of cars backing-up in the pit lane or at the pit exit, instead
of the potentially dangerous situation of large speed differences on track.
We consider that in the main all drivers involved in these incidents were acting in
good faith and with safety as a priority. We also accept that Race Direction has
taken the correct approach in apply the minimum lap time. It is desirable that better
solution be found for the pit exit however at this stage, what that solution would be, is
unknown.
In view of the above, no further action is taken.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matteo Perini
Danny Sullivan Alfonso Oros
The Stewards