2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 31
To The Stewards Date 03 November 2023
Time 18:18
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the first free practice session:
The installation of the driver helmet camera assembly, respectively the installation of the correct
ballast (if no driver helmet camera is used) was checked on all cars.
During the first free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P1 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the first free practice session:
The fuel pressure of all cars during the first free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the first free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 63.
Before the Qualifying practice session:
A fuel sample was taken from car numbers 10 and 27.
An engine oil sample was taken from car numbers 10 and 20.
During the Qualifying practice session:
Car numbers 55, 44, 31, 10, 81, 04, 18, 20, 27, 22 and 23 were weighed.
The weight distribution was checked on car numbers 55, 44, 31, 10, 81, 04, 18, 20, 27, 22 and 23.
The uppermost rear wing element adjustable positions were checked on car numbers 10, 77, 27 and
03.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during the qualifying sessions were checked.
After the Qualifying practice session:
All drivers were weighed.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The plenum temperature was checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the qualifying sessions.
Torque sensor software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
Torque sensor calibration checks have been carried out on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash board display configuration was not changed.
Custom software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
SECU software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the qualifying session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the qualifying session was checked on
all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car numbers 44 and 14.
All the fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 14.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
The following SECU software versions have been used by the teams during the qualifying sessions:
Team FIA Standard ECU
system version
Oracle Red Bull Racing SR1511
Scuderia Ferrari SR1511
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS Formula One SR1511
Team
BWT Alpine F1 Team SR1511
McLaren Formula 1 Team SR1511
Alfa Romeo F1 Team Stake SR1511
Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant Formula One SR1511
Team
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team SR1511
Scuderia AlphaTauri SR1511
Williams Racing SR1511
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2023 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate