2023 MEXICO CITY GRAND PRIX
27 - 29 October 2023
From The Stewards Document 62
To The Team Manager, Date 29 October 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 17:30
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 53) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 14:07
Session Race
Fact Car 16 was driven on track with visible damage, prior to detachment of bodywork in
turn 1.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 3.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative, the FIA Technical Delegate and
the Director of the FIA Single-Seater Department (the latter via Zoom) and viewed
video and team radio evidence.
The team representative explained that after contact between Car 16 and Car 11 in
Turn 1, Lap 1, it had monitored the situation and was of the view that the structure of
the wing assembly was sound and that it did not expect the end plate to detach. It
tried to check the situation from live TV but was unable to find suitable video.
However on lap 3 it noted a serious deterioration in the data and was about to take
action when the end plate detached.
The FIA representatives explained that from October 2022 it was standard procedure
agreed by the teams and the FIA, confirmed in January 2023, that the detachment of
an end plate and the location of its final landing place, was not to be deemed as
“unsafe”. This was confirmed to the Stewards’ satisfaction by the sighting of an email
dated October 22 2022 and minutes of the SAC meeting of January 2023.
Accordingly the detachment of the endplate is not deemed to cause the car to be
“unsafe” and therefore no further action is warranted.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matteo Perini
Danny Sullivan Alfonso Oros
The Stewards