2023 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 23
To The Team Manager, Date 24 November 2023
Williams Racing
Time 17:00
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 17 & 18)
and heard from the driver and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 2 - Logan Sargeant
Competitor Williams Racing
Time 13:57
Session Practice 1
Fact Erratic driving between Turns 15 and 16.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 e) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
This is the driver’s 2nd reprimand of the season.
The competitor (Williams Racing) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 2 (Logan Sargeant), team representatives
of both cars and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, team radio and
in-car video evidence.
The driver of Car 2 was preparing for a push lap and the radio communication from
his engineer was almost entirely about preparation for that lap. The driver only
received warning of the approach of Car 61, 1 second prior to its arrival. This could
easily have resulted in a collision.
In mitigation it was noted that 50% of the field were substitute drivers and hence there
were many different run plans in operation, making it hard for teams to predict
whether cars were going to be on push laps or otherwise.
However, on a circuit where there are a number of places where it is not possible for
the driver to have effective use of the mirrors to see approaching cars, it is essential
that priority of radio communications be given to warning the driver, of other cars,
rather than information for the preparation of a push lap. Accordingly a fine for the
team is warranted.
All teams are reminded that they are expected to provide their drivers with adequate
warning of approaching cars in all practice sessions but especially in Qualification
and that failure to do so will be investigated.
A reprimand for the driver is warranted because he changed direction too late rather
than remaining on a predictable line.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mohamed Al Hashmi
The Stewards