2023 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 June 2023
From The Stewards Document 26
To The Team Manager, Date 17 June 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 15:30
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 23 & 24)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 12:52
Session Practice 3
Fact Alleged unnecessary impeding of Car 23 by Car 55 in turn 13.
Infringment Alleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of Car 23
(Alexander Albon), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The weather conditions resulted in significant visibility problems for the drivers
especially on the straight between Turns 12 and 13. The team had previously been
warned by Race Control about a similar incident the prior lap at the same location and
we noted that communications between the team and driver were satisfactory.
The driver of Car 55 stated he knew of the approach of Car 23 but had to back off
significantly because of the presence in front of him, of Car 1.
The wording of Article 35.7 includes the words “unnecessarily impedes another
driver”. In this case both parties and the Stewards believe that this was not a case of
unnecessarily impeding and that the driver of Car 55 acted in the manner he did in
order to, in his view, avoid the car in front and the approaching car from behind.
Both drivers raised with the Stewards the issue of cars backing up at Turn 13. They
strongly suggested that it would be better, in the wet, for any backing up to occur at
Turn 10 where they believe there was better visibility. Drivers are reminded of their
responsibilities under Article 33.4 of the Sporting Regulations.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Marcel Demers
The Stewards