2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 37
To All Teams, All Officials Date 04 November 2023
Time 07:45
Title Post-Sprint Shootout Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Shootout Procedure
Enclosed BRA DOC 37 - Post-Sprint Shootout Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 37
To All Officials, All Teams Date 04 November 2023
Time 09:45
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT SHOOTOUT PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint Shootout procedure requires the fastest driver to be interviewed once he has got out of
his car. We would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of SQ3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the fastest driver may also be permitted
in the Parc Fermé area at this time. There will be a designated area where the TV crews and
approved photographers must remain for the duration of the Parc Fermé procedure.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint Shootout interview with the fastest driver only will
take place in the designated area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If the fastest driver is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure that they go
directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interview the fastest driver will be led to the backdrop for a Pirelli Award photo
opportunity.
• The top three (3) drivers will then conduct a pooled TV interview at the back of the FIA Garages. There
will be no Press Conference following the Sprint Shootout.
• Drivers eliminated in SQ1 and SQ2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in SQ3 and drivers who did not
participate in SQ1 but are eligible to race must conduct a pooled TV interview immediately after they
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of the Sprint Shootout in which they
participated. This will take place directly behind the FIA garage.
For drivers positioned outside the top three (3) at the end of Sprint Shootout we would like to remind you
of point 16 of the Race Director’s notes and ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is
followed:
• Any drivers who finished participating in the Sprint Shootout sessions after SQ1 and SQ2 must proceed
to the FIA scales through the pit lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The
drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the
FIA.
1
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team.
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars
without contact with any other person.
Please see the attached Sprint Shootout - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
tuotoohS
tnirpS
–
emreF
craP
xirP
dnarG
oluaP
oãS
3202
1
0
mudioP
PORDKCAB
FFRR
VVTT
nnaammaarreemmaaCC
SELACS
dr3
srehsinif
gniniameR
ts1
ereh
dekrap
dn2
llaW
tiP
3202
rebmevoN20–
1
noisreV
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
rof
weivretnI
tsetsaf
eht
ylno
revird