2023 QATAR GRAND PRIX
06 - 08 October 2023
From The Stewards Document 69
To The Team Manager, Date 08 October 2023
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:02
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 59), summoned
(document 60) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matters and
determine the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:00
Session Qualifying
Fact Working on a car under Parc Fermé conditions without the Approval of the Technical
Delegate;
Alleged use of more than two cars available for use at any one time during a
competiton.
InfringementBreach of Articles 40.3, 40.6 and 40.9 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Alleged breach of Article 27.1 and 27.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Car 11 is required to start the Race from pit lane.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 11 (Sergio Perez).
The Technical Delegate reported to the Stewards (document 59) that the competitor
worked on the car two hours after the chequered flag without supervision. The report
mentioned that the relevant chassis might have been assembled to more than an
assembly comprising a survival cell as defined in Article 27.2, stipulating a third car
available to the competitor.
After hearing from the competitor, the Technical Delegate and the Single Seater
Technical Director, the Stewards came to the following conclusion:
During the Sprint session Oracle Red Bull Racing car number 11 suffered an
accident where Chassis 01 got damaged beyond repair. Following that Chassis 01
was dismantled to a state that does not meet the criteria of a car as outlined in Article
27.2 anymore. Subsequently all dismantled parts as well as the damaged survival cell
were covered in accordance with Article 40.6.
After covering Chassis 01, Chassis 02 was then assembled to a level exceeding the
definition in Article 27.2, which defines the state of assembly for a chassis to be
considered to be a car. This has been done without supervision and parts have been
modified without the Approval of the Technical Delegate and outside of the time
window defined in Article 40.6. A self-scrutineering form was submitted.
Whilst the assembly of Chassis 02 outside of the period of two hours after the end of
the Sprint session and before the commencement of the working period according to
Art 40.8 is not in compliance with Article 40.6 and Article 40.9 has also been
breached, the Stewards acknowledge the fact that neither Article 27.1 nor Article 27.2
was breached as the competitor at no time had more than two cars available for use
as no more than two assemblies comprising a survival cell as defined in Article 12.1
of the Technical Regulations and additional components were used at the same time.
The Stewards note that the way Article 27.2 was interpreted by the competitor
concerned, whilst not breaching the regulations, might not be fully in line with the
intention of the relevant regulation and therefore recommend that the issue will be
further discussed and clarified in the Sporting Advisory Committee.
As the respective car is already required to start from the pit lane following another
decision (document 65), no further amendment of the Starting Grid for the race is
required.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Matteo Perini
Danny Sullivan David Domingo
The Stewards