2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 03 November 2023
Time 09:15
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed BRA DOC 8 - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Officials, All Teams Date 03 November 2023
Time 09:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURES
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the fastest driver may also be permitted
in the Parc Fermé area at this time. There will be a designated area where the TV crews and
approved photographers must remain for the duration of the Parc Fermé procedure.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in the designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award
photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then conduct a pooled TV interview at the back of the FIA Garages. They
will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference located on the lower
ground level of the Pit Garage Complex.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also conduct a pooled TV interview immediately after they
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated. This
will take place at the back of the FIA garage.
For drivers outside of the top three (3) positions at the end of qualifying we would like to remind you of
point 16 of the Race Director’s Notes and ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is
followed:
• Any drivers who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed to the
FIA scales through the pit lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The drivers
1
may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the FIA.
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team.
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars
without contact with any other person.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
gniyfilauQ
-
emreF
craP
xirP
dnarG
(cid:381)(cid:367)(cid:437)(cid:258)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:262)(cid:94)
3202
1
0
mudioP
PORDKCAB
FFRR
VVTT
nnaammaarreemmaaCC
SELACS
dr3
srehsinif
gniniameR
ts1
ereh
dekrap
dn2
llaW
tiP
3202rebmevoN(cid:22)0
–(cid:20)(cid:17)1
noisreV
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa