2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 52
To The Team Manager, McLaren F1 Team Date 04 November 2023
Time 14:56
Title Infringement - Car 4 - Failure to follow Race Director's instructions
Description Infringement - Car 4 - Failure to follow Race Director's instructions
Enclosed BRA DOC 52 - Infringement - NOR - Sprint Shootout SC2-SC1 Times - Corrected
.pdf
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 52
To All Officials, All Teams Date 04 November 2023
Time 14:56
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following matter
and determine the following:
Session Sprint Shootout
Fact The car below exceeded the 1:14.0-time limit between the Safety Car lines.
No Car Driver Competitor Time of Day Lap
1 4 Lando Norris McLaren F1 Team 11:10:04 5 (SQ1)
Infringement Breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article
12.2.1 i) of the FIA International Sporting Code (non-compliance with the Race
Director’s Event Notes, item 4.2, document 4).
Decision Reprimand.
Reason The Stewards thoroughly reviewed marshalling/positioning data, timing data and
on-board cameras.
NOR completed a cool-down lap and maintained their delta for most of the lap
while following TSU with a reasonable gap. TSU crossed SC2 Line just after LEC
who was exiting the pit. Therefore, TSU had to slow down to create a gap between
them and LEC, thus also impacting NOR. During the hearing NOR stated that they
felt they had to decide between exceeding the delta time and overtaking TSU
thereby risking impeding the latter.
The Stewards accept that the NOR made reasonable effort to not interfere with the
car in front of them and was at the same time well aware that no car was behind
them. Nonetheless, the cool-down lap of NOR was not impacted by other cars on
flying laps. The Stewards determine that they could have done more to manage the
delta time in a better way and therefore consider a reprimand to the driver to be
appropriate.
Note Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards