2023 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 31
To The Team Manager, Date 28 July 2023
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:15
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 24 & 25)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 17:49
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 20 unnecessarily impeding Car 16 from T11 to T15 at 17:49.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 20 (Kevin Magnussen), the driver of Car
16 (Charles Leclerc), team representatives and reviewed video, telemetry, team
radio and in-car video evidence.
Magnussen left the track at Turn 9 and made contact with the wall. He then rejoined
and drove the dry line. Leclerc, who was on a fast lap, caught Magnussen who did not
give way until turn 16. Magnussen explained that he did not feel it was safe to move
off onto the wet at speed and give room to Leclerc, particularly in the turns between
11 and 15. The Stewards observed that he did not receive a warning from his team
that Leclerc was behind until Leclerc was right behind him at turn 10. The team also
told him to push, as he needed to make it to the line to get another lap.
Whether it was his failure to slow and yield following his accident, or whether it was
the team’s failure to give information early enough that he could have pulled off
earlier, or whether it was the instruction to push through the lap; in any case the
Stewards determine that he unnecessarily impeded Leclerc.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Loïc Bacquelaine
The Stewards