2023 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 September 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 19
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 September 2023
Time 11:55
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed JPN DOC 19 - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 J G P
APANESE RAND RIX
22 – 24 September 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 19
To All Officials, All Teams Date 23 September 2023
Time 11:55
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane and proceed down the fast lane and park in front of the Pirelli Hot Laps Garages (between the
Alfa Romeoand McLaren garages) where they will find the 1,2,3 boards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews’photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no
driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at
this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, they will be escorted onto the grid in the vicinity of grid position
22 where the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place. The interviewer will be selected by the
Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop underneath the podium for the
Top 3 and Pirelli Award photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located in
the middle of the paddockadjacent, andthey may be accompanied by their press officers, who should
wait to collect their drivers in the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session immediately
after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they
participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
1
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Japanese Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Qualifying
Walkway
(Garage
27)
PPPPPhhhhhoooootttttooooogggggrrrrraaaaappppphhhhheeeeerrrrrsssssss
WWWWWaaaaaiiiiitttttiiiiinnnnnggggg AAAAArrrrreeeeeaaaaa FIA Race
GARAGES
Control
Tower
PPooddiiuumm
BACKDROP
Remaining cars
2nd
parked here
FIA SCALES
1st
3rd
Pit Wall Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann
Grid position
22
Version 1–23September2023
HOT
LAPS
ROMEO
ALFA
MARTIN ASTON HAAS
ALPHA
TAURI
SCUDERIA
RACING WILLIAMS
TOP 3 TO BE
INTERVIEWED ON
THE GRID IN FRONT
OF GRANDSTAND
FOM