2023 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 55
To All Teams, All Officials Date 30 July 2023
Time 12:40
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed BEL DOC 55 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 B G P
ELGIAN RAND RIX
28 – 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 55
To All Officials, All Teams Date 30 July 2023
Time 12:40
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2023 Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium
Ceremony, the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) After taking the chequered flag, all drivers will return to the pit lane using the pit exit. Note that
this means that cars will be driving in the opposite direction down the pit lane and all teams
must ensure that team personnel and guests do not enter the pit lane through the garages
until after all cars have reached the parc fermé area.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to the Pit Entry, where
they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 in front of the FIA garages.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room
until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the
Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team photographer of the
winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other photographers must remain
outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
(cid:120) Once weighed, the Drivers will be called for their post-race interviews. The post-race interviews will
take place in the designated area in Parc Fermé, and the interviewer will be selected by the
Commercial Rights Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
1
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located in the middle of the upper paddock, where they may be accompanied by their
press officers who must wait at the TV Pen entrance.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
2–27July2023
Pit
Wall
parked
here
2
CCaammeerraammaann
nd
finishers
TTVV
RRFF
1
Remaining
SSeeccuurriittyy
st
3
rd
F1
Backdrop
Podium
WWaaiittiinngg
aarreeaa
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerr’’ss
2023
Belgian
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Race
ssrreehhppaarrggoottoohhPP
FIA
Scales
parked
in parc
ferme
fast
lane
until
the
last
car
has
Photographers
must
not
enter
the
FIA
FIA
FIA
FIA
FOM
5
4
3
2
1