2023 QATAR GRAND PRIX
06 - 08 October 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 33
To All Teams, All Officials Date 07 October 2023
Time 15:50
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed QAT DOC 32 - Post-Sprint Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 Q G P
ATAR RAND RIX
06 – 08 October 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 33
To All Officials, All Teams Date 07 October 2023
Time 15:50
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT INTERVIEW PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag the top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane where they will
find the boards from 1,2,3 in front of the FIA garages. In the event that the World Drivers’ Championship
is decided in the Sprint, the Champion should continue and stop on the LED screen located under the
podium (even if the Champion finishes outside of the top three (3)).
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted
in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews will take place in this designated area.
The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder. In the event that the World Drivers’
Championship is decided in the Sprint and the Champion is not in the top 3, they must go to the
designated area for a TV interview once they have been weighed.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the ground floor of the media centre.
• In the event that the World Drivers’ Championship is decided in the Sprint, an FIA Champion’s Press
Conference will be held directly after the top three (3) Press Conference.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference(s), the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located
outside the media centre, and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should wait to
collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the
Sprint must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their TV
interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back into
1
the paddock.
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Qatar Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Sprint
P
RED BULL RACING Wh FIA GARAGES FIA GARAGES
05 niti a
g
ot o 04 01 RACE CONTROL
a
g
p
a r
rh
ee
ar
s
PPooddiiuumm
Backdrop 2nd
FIA
RAMP Remaining cars
scales
WORLD
CHAMPION RAMP parked here
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann
1st
F
e
n 3rd
c
e
PPPhhhoootttooogggrrraaappphhheeerrrsss
Pit Wall Pit Wall
Version 1 – 06 October 2023