2023 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 August 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 51
To All Teams, All Officials Date 27 August 2023
Time 11:00
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed NLD DOC 51 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 D G P
UTCH RAND RIX
25 – 27 August 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 51
To All Officials, All Teams Date 27 August 2023
Time 11:00
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2023 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
• Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to stay on the track and stop
on the pit straight where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3.
• Team mechanics are not permitted to move from their garages to the Parc Fermé with cooling fans
in anticipation of their cars stopping at the end of the Race until after the last car has taken the
chequered flag.
• Any other personnel or VIPs are not permitted to enter the pit lane until after the last car has taken
the chequered flag. Any infringement will result in the removal of passes from the team(s) in question
from subsequent events, and potential reporting of the infringing team(s) to the Stewards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area once the cars are in the Parc Fermé area (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait
outside the cool down room behind the podium until the podium ceremony has concluded
following the instructions given to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the
designated area. All other photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration
of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
• Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
• The post-race interviews will take place in the designated area in Parc Fermé, and the interviewer
will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room.
• Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
1
• The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
• The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
• The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted via golf buggy by the FIA
Media Delegate to the TV pen, located at the end of hospitality paddock, where they may be
accompanied by their press officers who must wait at the entrance to the TV pen.
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go via golf buggy to the FIA Press Conference,
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). There will be golf buggies waiting to take drivers to the TV pen from the
upper paddock.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Dutch Grand Prix
Parc Ferme - Race
Photographers access
(10 minutes before end of session)
2 1
Photographers
Waiting area
PPooddiiuumm
Remaining
cars parked
Backdrop
FIA
on
scales
right-hand
side of pit
entry
Pit Wall Pit Wall
2nd
1st Interviews on
TTVV RRFF the gird
CCaammeerraammaann 3rd
Version 1 – 24 August 2023