2023 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
30 June - 02 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 39
To The Team Manager, Date 01 July 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 14:25
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 35 & 36)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 12:09
Session Sprint Shootout
Fact Car 16 unnecessarily impeded Car 81 in turn 9 at 12:09.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 6 (Charles Leclerc), the driver of Car
81 (Oscar Piastri), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver of Car 81 stated that as he approached Turn 9 he saw that Car 16 was
travelling slowly and had to brake, reducing his speed by approximately 45 km/h over
the previous push lap. This was verified by the Stewards referencing the telemetry of
Car 81. It was confirmed Car 81 lost approximately 0.5 of a second in that mini-
sector (5.3s v 4.8s).
The driver of Car 16 stated that the last call he had from his team was when he was
approaching Turn 4 (“Piastri 6 seconds”) and that he saw Car 81 in his mirrors as he
was in Turn 8 and Car 81 was in Turn 7.
The Team Representative of Car 16 stated that the team “could have done better” in
communicating the rapid approach of Car 81 and its drivers stated that “If I had been
warned I could have done something earlier”.
Accordingly we determine that although this was not entirely the fault of the driver, and
that the team’s lack of communication was the major contributing factor, a grid
position penalty must be imposed as Car 81 was “unnecessarily impeded”, because
there is no doubt that the situation could have been avoided.
It should also be noted that this penalty is to apply ONLY to the Sprint and should the
driver be unable to contest the Sprint at this event, the penalty shall carry over to the
next Sprint (and not the Grand Prix).
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Walter Jobst
The Stewards