2023 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 July 2023
Time 09:25
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed BEL DOC 36 - Post Sprint Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 B G P
ELGIAN RAND RIX
28 – 30 July 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Officials, All Teams Date 29 July 2023
Time 09:25
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT INTERVIEW PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out of
their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the Sprint we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• After taking the chequered flag, all drivers will return to the pit lane using the pit exit. Note that
this means that cars will be driving in the opposite direction down the pit lane and all teams
must ensure that team personnel and guests do not enter the pit lane through the garages
until after all cars have reached the parc fermé area.
• The top three (3) drivers should return to the Pit Lane where they will find the boards from 1,2,3 in front
of the FIA garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted
in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint interviews will take place in this designated area.
The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located in
the middle of the upper paddock, and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should
wait to collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in the
Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet,
Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the
Sprint must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their TV
interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the Sprint are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back into
the paddock.
1
Please see the attached Sprint - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Belgian Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Sprint
5 4 3 2 1
FIA FIA FIA FIA FOM
Photographers must not enter the
fast lane until the last car has
parked in parc ferme
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerr’’ss
WWaaiittiinngg aarreeaa
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerr’’ss
WWaaiittiinngg aarreeaa
Podium
F1 Backdrop
3rd
SSeeccuurriittyy Remaining
1st
TTVV RRFF finishers
CCaammeerraammaann 2nd
parked here
FIA Scales
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerr’’ss
Pit Wall
Version 1 – 27 July 2023