2023 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
15 - 17 September
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 15
To All Teams, All Officials Date 16 September 2023
Time 13:35
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure V2
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure V2
Enclosed SGP DOC 15 - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 S G P
INGAPORE RAND RIX
15 – 17 September 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 15
To All Officials, All Teams Date 16 September 2023
Time 13:35
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Entry where they will find the boards 1,2,3 in front of the FIA garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no
driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be permitted in the Parc Fermé area at
this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in the designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award
photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located
behind the Alfa Romeo garage in the paddock, and they may be accompanied by their press officers,
who should wait to collect their drivers in the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session immediately
after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they
participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
1
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Singapore Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Qualifying
PPPhhhoootttooogggrrraaappphhheeerrr’’’sss
wwwaaaiiitttiiinnnggg aaarrreeeaaa
PPooddiiuumm
BACKDROP
Remaining
FIA SCALES
finishers
parked here 3rd TTVV RRFF F
CCaammeerraammaann e
n
c
e
1st
2nd
Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
Grid Box 12
Version 1 – 14 September 2023