2023 HUNGARIAN GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 22 July 2023
Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 18:58
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 24 & 25)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 16:17
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 18 impeded Car 77 in turn 13
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ 8 (Lance Stroll), the driver of Car 7​​ 7
(Valtteri Bottas), team representatives and reviewed video, timing, team radio and in-
car video evidence and determined that Car 77 was on a fast lap while approaching
Turn 13 when he encountered a series of cars that were bunched up in front.
Of those cars, Car 18 was on the racing line and therefore impeded his progress on
a fast lap.
At the hearing, Bottas said that his lap was already compromised when he
approached Turn 13 and this was exacerbated by Car 18 being on the racing line
thereafter. However, both he and his team representative said that they did not think
that Car 18 was wholly to blame for the fact that he was impeded because of the
situation on track at the time.
Car 18 attempted to but was prevented from going off the racing line as there was
Car 10 on his left, closing in on Car 63 and Car 77 approaching from the right. At
about the same time, Car 63 and a series of other cars were being overtaken on the
left by Car 4. The result of all of this was that Car 18 had to remain on the racing line
and Car 77 had to abort his lap.
While it was clear that Car 77 was impeded, Article 37.5 required that the car not be
“unnecessarily” impeded by another car. Here, given the situation on track and the
fact that the driver and the team representative of Car 77 did not feel that there was a
single other competitor that unnecessarily impeded, we decided that there would be
no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Felix Holter
Vitantonio Liuzzi Lajos Herczeg
The Stewards