2023 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 47
To All Teams, All Officials Date 02 April 2023
Time 18:58
Title First Restart Procedure
Description First Restart Procedure
Enclosed AUS DOC 47 - Race Restart Procedure.pdf
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards
2023 A G P
USTRALIAN RAND RIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 47
To All Officials, All Teams Date 02 April 2023
Time 18:58
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following matter
and determine the following:
Time 15:34
Session Race
Fact Restart procedure
Offence Alleged breach of Article 58.8 of the F1 Sporting Regulations – failing to
follow the safety car no more than 10 car lengths apart.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing,
telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence and determined as follows.
After a Red Flag period in Lap 9, the safety car resumed the race with the cars
following it per the restart procedure under Article 58 of the F1 Sporting
Regulations.
For a race to resume with a standing start behind a safety car, Article 58.8 of the
Regulations require the cars to follow the safety car no more than 10 car lengths
apart.
The first car in line behind the safety car may “dictate the pace and, if necessary,
fall more than ten (10) car lengths behind it”.
In this case, Car 44 HAM was the first car in line and when the safety car lights
went out at turn 6, dictated the pace by going very slowly (as the regulations
entitled it to do).
Car 63 RUS, got off to a slow start from the pits and as soon as he left the pit lane
sped up to make up the gap. That then resulted in the other cars behind RUS to be
delayed leaving the pit lane and also speeding up.
When RUS and the cars behind caught up with the cars in front, they were met with
a significant speed delta between the two groups resulting in a situation where a
number of cars had to take evasive action.
This was not at all an ideal situation from a safety point of view.
Although RUS’s start was slow, given that he had to maintain the pit lane speed till
he got out of the pits and that he immediately sped up to make up the gap, we did
not consider that it would be necessary or appropriate to penalise RUS for a slow
start from the pit lane. We therefore took no further action.
We do consider that part of the problem is the regulation that permits the lead car
to set the pace even when the restart is for a standing start from the pit lane (as
opposed to a rolling start).
This should perhaps be looked at in the future to see if this is appropriate for a
restart of this nature.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards