2023 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 August 2023
From The Stewards Document 47
To The Team Manager, Date 26 August 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 19:05
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 40 & 41)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 15:12
Session Qualifying
Fact Potentially Dangerous manoeuvre by Car 55 between turns 1 and 2 at 15:12.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 e) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season.
The competitor (Ferrari) is fined €5000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 5​​ 5 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of Car 8​​ 1
(Oscar Piastri), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Sainz was exiting the pits and immediately moved to the racing line before turn 2. In
doing so Piastri who was on track, had to take avoiding action and was partially
forced off track and onto the grass. In the opinion of the Stewards this was a
“Potentially Dangerous” manoeuvre, and a crash was only avoided by the actions of
Piastri.
The Stewards listened to the radio of Bottas, who was the car that exited the pits
immediately ahead of Sainz, and Bottas was given ample warning of Piastri
approaching on the track. By comparison Sainz was warned not to cross the white
line at the exit of the pits, and was not warned about Piastri until he was already
alongside.
Sainz explained that he had briefly caught sight of Piastri as he was rounding turn 1 at
the pit exit and gauged that Piastri was on a slow lap. From then on he did not see
Piastri because of the relative angle of the cars. He also explained that he was trying
to get to the drying line as quickly as possible.
While the Stewards understand this explanation, in their opinion, Sainz rapid move to
the line, while unable to see a car that he knew was in the area created a “Potentially
Dangerous” situation. The Stewards also felt that the team contributed to this
situation and therefore issue a team fine.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Felix Holter
Derek Warwick Marc Boonman
The Stewards