2023 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 4
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 November 2023
Time 11:45
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed 2023 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix - Event Notes.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2023 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
24 – 26 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 04
To All Officials, All Teams Date 23 November 2023
Time 11:45
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags
3.1 Single waved: Drivers reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be clear that
a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected to have
braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
3.2 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time. Furthermore, during qualifying, any driver in a double yellow
sector will have that lap time cancelled.
3.3 Double Waved during VSC or SC: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling
sector during a VSC or SC, in addition to the requirements in 3.2 above, must remain positive of the
SECU delta time in the sector concerned.
4) Laps during Qualifying and Reconnaissance Laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the second practice session.
4.2 For the safe and orderly conduct of the Event, other than in exceptional circumstances accepted as
such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second Safety Car Line
to the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the end of the qualifying session, including
in-laps and out-laps, may be deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly. For the avoidance of doubt,
this does not supersede Article 33.4 and Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations,
which apply to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents will normally
be investigated after the qualifying session.
1
5) Article 55.14
“In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point
at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no erratic
acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede the
restart”.
6) Parc Fermé
6.1 The Parc Fermé cameras must be always uncovered and operational during the Event.
6.2 No more than three (3) team personnel per car are permitted into the Parc Fermé area for the sole
purpose of fitting cooling fans and any work required by the FIA.
7) Lapping during the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster driver past at the first
available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to ensure that the
point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability of marshals
to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to
be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going
to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the
faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in
addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the
driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules,
additional instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
8) Article 19.4
In accordance with the provisions of Article 19.4 a), upon request by the Technical Delegate, the
Teams are required to connect the umbilical to the cars and close the HV contactors (TR 5.26.5)
for the sole purpose of checking the car ERS safety status, every morning immediately after the
covers are removed and the cars are under parc fermé conditions. The umbilical must then remain
connected, and the car powered up until the end of the pre-Race car display period.
Event Specific Instructions
9) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1 b), this Event is an Open Event.
10) FIA Outside Scales Times
Should the outside scales be set-up at the pit-lane entrance, these will be available for teams to use
at any time outside the curfew times and the Parc Fermé cover-up times, except for the 30 minutes
preceding the start of the Qualifying session and if there are support competitions using the pit lane.
2
11) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the relevant and
active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of this Index file
(“2023 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 4 – 2023-08-22.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can be found
on the FIA SFTP site.
Competitors are hereby required to ensure compliance with these directives for the safe and orderly
conduct of the Event.
12) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races:
On the white line on the second break in the concrete apron. Approximately three (3) meters from
the garages.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
13) Practice starts
13.1 No practice starts at the pit exit.
13.2 Practice starts may be carried out on the track after the end of each free practice session. Any car
on the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of
entering the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
13.3 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
13.4 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
14) Qualifying
As per article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, drivers are not allowed to drive
unnecessarily slowly, that includes stopping a car in the fast lane of the pit lane.
15) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
15.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
15.2 For safety reasons, drivers must keep to the right of the solid white line at the pit entry when they
are entering the pits.
3
16) Post-Qualifying drivers weighing
Any driver who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed
through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned to their team’s
garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is
recorded by the FIA.
Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the
Medical Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his
team.
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their
cars without contact with any other person.
17) New Rainlight Operation Test after FP1
After all cars have taken the chequered flag, a Double Yellow Sector and Low Grip will be activated.
After approximately 20 seconds Low Grip will be disabled. Another 10 seconds later VSC will be
activated. After approximately 20 seconds VSC will be disabled.
18) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 7, 8, 9
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 10, 11, 12
19) Track Limits
19.1 In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges. During
Qualifying and the Race, each time a driver fails to stay within the track limits, this will result in that
lap time being invalidated by the Stewards. Additionally, each time a driver fails to respect track limits
at the apex of turn 16, will result in that lap time and the immediately following lap time being
invalidated by the Stewards.
20) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences.
21) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
22) Removing cars from the grid
Cars may be removed from the grid through the gates adjacent to grid positions 7 and 17.
23) Race Suspension
In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane of the pits in front of the pit exit
lights.
24) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
25) Guest access to the grid
For the start of the race and after the end of the race, teams are responsible to ensure that guests
do not cross the teams’ garages and access the pit lane before all cars are on the grid or have
reached Parc Fermé.
4
26) Changes to the Circuit
26.1 Debris fence at MP4.5 on RHS has been extended by 16 meters.
26.2 All track light panels have been replaced with the newest models.
26.3 Debris fence between Turn 2 until Turn 3 on LHS has been upgraded to 3.5 meters height.
26.4 Resurfacing from entry Turn 6 until exit of Turn 7.
26.5 Resurfacing from entry Turn 10 until exit of Turn 11.
26.6 TecPro shortened by 88 m on RHS at Turn 2.
26.7 TecPro shortened by 71 m on RHS at Turn 3.
26.8 TecPro shortened by 34 m on LHS at Turn 5 and by 19 m at exit of Turn 5.
26.9 TecPro shortened by 33 m on LHS between Turn 5 and Turn 6.
26.10 New pit exit lights.
26.11 Concrete working lane has been repaired in front of garages 16 to 18.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5