2023 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 June 2023
From The Stewards Document 47
To The Team Manager, MoneyGram Haas F1 Team Date 04 June 2023
Time 13:15
Title Decision - Team Principal - MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Description Decision - Team Principal - MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Enclosed ESP DOC 47 - Decision - Team Principal - MoneyGram Haas F1 Team .pdf
Garry Connelly Matthew Selley
Derek Warwick David Domingo
The Stewards
2023 S G P
PANISH RAND RIX
02 – 04 June 2023
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 47
To The Team Manager, Date 04 June 2023
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team Time 13:15
The Stewards, having received a report from the Media Delegate, summoned (document 20) and heard
from the Team Principal and Team Manager, the FIA Media Delegate’s representative and the FIA
Single Seater Director, have considered the following matter and determine the following:
Team Principal: Mr Guenther Steiner
Competitor: MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Fact: During a Team media briefing on June 1, 2023, Mr Steiner made certain comments
about the FIA Stewards, in particular those on duty at the 2023 Monaco Grand Prix.
Infringement: Alleged breach of Articles 12.2.1.c and 12.2.1.f of the FIA International Sporting
Code. Breach of Article 12.2.1.k of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision: In relation to Articles 12.2.1.c and 12.2.1.f, No Further Action.
In relation to Article 12.2.1.k, a Reprimand.
Reason:
1. Article 12.2.1.k refers to “misconduct” which is defined in the ISC as “..the use of
language….which might reasonably be expected or be perceived to…cause
offence, humiliation or to be inappropriate”.
2. Mr Steiner’s word “laymen” and his reference to other sports having
“professional” personnel could be, and indeed were, perceived to cause offence
and in our view reasonably did cause offence not only to the Stewards in Monaco
but also to other FIA personnel and many motorsport volunteers.
3. However, the Stewards accept Mr Steiner’s statement during the hearing, that his
reference to professionalism was meant to refer to people who worked in a role
as their profession and not that the Stewards were acting unprofessionally.
4. Further Mr Steiner stated his reference to “laymen” was meant to refer to people
who worked occasionally and not meant to refer a lack of qualifications or
specialisation.
5. Mr Steiner also freely apologised “if anyone was hurt by what I said or
misunderstood what I said”. The Stewards accept this apology.
6. Mr Steiner stated that if he had meant to insult or offend anyone he would have
used much different words. The Stewards do not dispute this.
7. The Stewards note that any party has the right to disagree with any determination
of the Stewards of an event, however are strongly of the view that such
disagreement should, and can, be expressed respectfully.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and
Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant
regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matthew Selley
Derek Warwick David Domingo
The Stewards