2023 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 19
To The Stewards Date 31 March 2023
Time 19:40
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the first free practice session:
The exhaust system components of all cars were checked against the declaration submitted by the
relevant team before the Competition.
The front wing of car number 77/24 was digitally scanned and the scanned data were compared with
the team declared CAD drawings. Further the team declared CAD drawings were also compared
with previously submitted versions and checked for conformance with the 2023 Formula One
Technical Regulations.
A front floor deflection test was carried on car number 02.
During the first free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P1 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the first free practice session:
A front floor deflection test was carried on car number 18.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the first free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the first free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 27.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 27.
During the second free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P2 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the second free practice session:
Car number 20 was weighed.
A front floor deflection test was carried on car number 04.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
The SECU software versions were checked on all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 18.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 18.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Competition.
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2023 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate