2023 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
30 June - 02 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 30 June 2023
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 20:35
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 24 & 25)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 17:17
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 1 allegedly unnecessarily impeded Car 20 in turn 1.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ (Max Verstappen), the driver of Car 2​​ 0
(Kevin Magnussen), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver of Car 1 stated that he saw a car approaching after he crossed the line at
the end of his push lap and moved to the left of the track after the exit of Turn 1.
The driver of Car 20 stated that he had to move to the right to avoid Car 1 and hence
lost time on his fast lap.
The Stewards determined from the video (and audio) evidence that Car 20 had
clipped the kerb in Turn 1 and that this subsequently caused a slight change in
acceleration which in turn resulted in a slightly slower time on the next mini sectors.
The Stewards further determined that Car 20 did not have to take significant evasive
action.
We further note that the fact that the lap time of Car 20 was subsequently deleted
(due to exceeding track limits at Turn 10) was irrelevant to this decision. Any incident
is always investigated independently of other incidents or penalties.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Walter Jobst
The Stewards