2023 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 30 April 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 17
To All Teams, All Officials Date 28 April 2023
Time 15:15
Title Post-Sprint Shootout Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Shootout Procedure
Enclosed AZE DOC 17 - Post-Sprint Shootout Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 A G P
ZERBAIJAN RAND RIX
28 – 30 April 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 17
To All Officials, All Teams Date 28 April 2023
Time 15:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT SHOOTOUT INTERVIEW PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint Shootout procedure requires the fastest driver to be interviewed once they have got out
of their car. We would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of SQ3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the boards from 1,2,3 in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Sprint Shootout interview with the fastest driver only will
take place in this designated area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If the fastest driver is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure that they go
directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the fastest driver will be led to the backdrop for a Pirelli Award photo
opportunity.
• The top three (3) drivers will then conduct a pooled TV interview at the back of the FIA Garages. There
will be no Press Conference following the Sprint Shootout.
• Drivers eliminated in SQ1 and SQ2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in SQ3 and drivers who did not
participate in SQ1 but are eligible to race must conduct a pooled TV interview immediately after they
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of the Sprint Shootout in which they
participated. This will take place directly behind the FIA garage.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after the
Sprint Shootout must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once
their TV interviews have concluded.
Please see the attached Sprint Shootout - Parc Fermé Diagram.
1
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Azerbaijan Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Shootout
1 2 3
FIA
Race Control GARAGE
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss FIA GARAGE
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
F1 Backdrop
3rd
FIA
1st
Scales
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann
2nd
Fence
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
Pit Wall
Version 1 – 27 April 2023