2023 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 August 2023
From The Stewards Document 63
To The Team Manager, Date 27 August 2023
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 19:00
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 60) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 17:15
Session Race
Fact Falling more than 10 car lengths of the car in front at the race resumption.
InfringementBreach of Article 58.8 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision 5 second time penalty imposed after the Race.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 2​​ 0 (Kevin Magnussen), team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, and in-car
video evidence.
When the cars left the pit lane at the resumption of the race after the red flag,
Magnussen was the last car in line. Multiple times during the two laps behind the
safety car he dropped back more than the required ten car lengths, sometimes as far
back as 260-270m and then sped forward, all in an attempt to warm his tyres. This is
not permitted under Art. 58.8 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations (SR) and
was clearly done in order to gain an advantage in tyre temperature.
Previously during safety car procedures, drivers have been awarded penalty points
when not following ten car lengths behind each other during the safety car. However
this was during the safety car procedures when marshals and rescue personnel were
on track and the penalty was issued under Art. 55.7 of the SR, and is considered
potentially dangerous, which is the reason behind penalty points. This case occurred
during the race resumption and while there was a sporting consequence, there was
no question of this being dangerous and therefore the Stewards award no penalty
points.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Felix Holter
Derek Warwick Marc Boonman
The Stewards