2023 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
15 - 17 September
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 17 September 2023
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 00:42
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 21:14
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 1 unnecessarily impeding cars exiting the Pit Lane at 21:14.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Reprimand (Driving).
This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1​​ (Max Verstappen), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing and team radio.
The driver stated that he waited (approximately 14 seconds) to leave the Pit Exit in
order to create a gap to the cars in front. The team representative explained that his
gap was negated by Turn 5 due to other cars slowing on the out lap, whilst the car
behind car 1 had increased its gap to 12 seconds. Whilst no obvious advantage was
gained by the driver in waiting at the Pit Exit for what is deemed to be an extraordinary
long time, the potential for this to negatively impact other drivers warrants a penalty.
Whilst it is noted that the car behind could have overtaken car 1, it is preferable that
cars depart the pit exit in an orderly manner.
The stewards determine that car 1 breached Article 37.5 of the Sporting Regulations
and hence a penalty of a Reprimand is appropriate.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Matteo Perini
Vitantonio Liuzzi Paul Ng
The Stewards