2023 BRITISH GRAND PRIX
07 - 09 July 2023
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 08 July 2023
McLaren F1 Team
Time 13:06
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 4 - Lando Norris
Competitor McLaren F1 Team
Time 11:30
Session Practice 3
Fact Mechanic on track
InfringementBreach of Art. 34.14 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations
Breach of Art. 26.6 and Art 26.7 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations
Decision Warning
The competitor McLaren is fined €1,000
Reason The Stewards reviewed video and the marshal report.
Car 4 was released by the team with a fitting from the garage still attached to the rear
of the car and while the car was still in pit lane told the driver to stop the car. The
driver stopped the car at the very first safe location which was at the end of pit lane
just past the pit exit line. The Stewards note that he was prevented from stopping
earlier, prior to the pit exit line, because of photographers standing in the working
area past the final team location.
The Stewards consider that releasing the car with a sizable part loose on the rear of
the car was incorrect. However, the prompt action of the team to stop the car in the
pit lane mitigated the potential unsafe condition and the Stewards therefore only issue
a warning.
The team sent a mechanic to retrieve the part off the car. In doing so, he crossed the
pit exit line and touched the stopped car and technically was on track when he did so.
Following that he then stepped to the front of the car and stopped the driver from
proceeding until he signaled that it was safe to do so. This section of the track at this
venue is entirely safe, and so what he did was not unsafe, and indeed he ensured the
safety of the other competitors by his actions. However, the team did not seek or
receive permission from Race Control to have personnel on the track, nor did the
mechanic seek permission of the marshal on scene.
This has not happened recently in Formula One, and in issuing a €1,000 fine the
Stewards have considered in mitigation that the car was prevented from stopping
before the line, and that the actions of the mechanic, while a clear breach of the
regulations, were deemed safe at all times.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Felix Holter
Derek Warwick Nicky Moffitt
The Stewards