2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 61
To All Teams, All Officials Date 05 November 2023
Time 10:15
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed BRA DOC 61 - Post-Race Procedures .pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 61
To All Officials, All Teams Date 05 November 2023
Time 10:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2023 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to the Pit Entry, where
they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards in front of the FIA Garages.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved TV
crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this
time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room until the
podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the Media
Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team photographer of the winning
driver may also be permitted in the designated area. There will be a designated area where the
TV crews and approved photographers must remain for the duration of the Parc Fermé
procedure. All other photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of
the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
(cid:120) Once weighed in the parc fermé area, the Drivers will be escorted to the back of the podium on the
first floor of the Pit Garage Complex for their post-race interviews, and the interviewer will be selected
by the Commercial Rights Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
1
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located at the pit entry end of the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their
press officers who must wait at the TV Pen entrance.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the lower ground level of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
3–05November
2023
Pit
Wall
2
nd
1
st
3
rd
Poidum
0
1
2023
São
Paulo
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
–
Race
BACKDROP
parked
here
Remaining
finishers
SCALES
aaeerrAA ggnniittiiaaWW
ssrreehhppaarrggoottoohhPP
ssrreehhppaarrggoottoohhPP