2023 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
31 March - 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 59
To The Team Manager, Scuderia Ferrari Date 18 April 2023
Time 13:45
Title Decision - Scuderia Ferrari - Right of Review
Description Decision - Scuderia Ferrari - Right of Review
Enclosed Decision - Scuderia Ferrari - Right of Review.pdf
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards
2023 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
31 March – 02 April 2023
From The Stewards Document 59
To The Team Manager, Date 18 April 2023
Scuderia Ferrari Time 13:45
The Stewards of the 2023 Australian Grand Prix have received a letter from Nikolas Tombazis, Single-seater
Director of the FIA, attaching a petition by Competitor Scuderia Ferrari dated 6th April 2023 under Article 14
of the FIA International Sporting Code ("Petition"), seeking a review of the Stewards decision n°46 made
within the framework of the 2023 Australian Grand Prix and requesting that the Stewards:
"consider such request and to make a determination whether or not a significant and relevant new element
exists (Article 14.3 of the Code) in relation to the decision/incident".
The Stewards, after having extensively considered the matter, including examining the annexures to the
Petition and the available telemetry, summoned and heard the team representative(s) namely Laurent
Mekies, Fred Vasseur and Carlos Sainz (Document no. 58) and determine the following:
Decision
There is no significant and relevant new element which was unavailable to the parties seeking the review at
the time of the decision concerned. The Petition is therefore dismissed.
Reason
Our decision that SAI was in breach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting
Code for causing the collision with ALO was made in-race (Document no. 46). We decided that SAI was
wholly to blame for the collision.
We considered the fact that this collision took place at the first corner on the first lap of the restart, when, by
convention, the Stewards would typically take a more lenient view of incidents. However, we decided that
notwithstanding that it was the equivalent of a first lap incident, we considered that there was sufficient gap
for SAI to take steps to avoid the collision and failed to do so. We therefore imposed a 5 second time
penalty.
The Petition contends that there are new significant and relevant elements, which were unavailable at the
time of our decision being made (and presumably, had we had the benefit of these elements, we would not
have made our decision).
Three elements were relied upon:
a) the telemetry data of SAI’s car after the second restart (annexure 4).
b) SAI’s witness statement (annexure 5); and
c) other driver’s witness statements (annexures 6 & 7), which amount to records of post-race
interviews given by ALO (annexure 6) as well as other drivers (annexure 7).
The Competitor says that there is precedent for these matters being considered new significant and relevant
elements. It points to the Stewards’ Decision dealing with the petition by Sahara Force India F1 Team
seeking a right of review as a precedent for the proposition that the verbal testimony of a driver and relevant
telemetry can amount to a significant and relevant new element.
The factual circumstances of the Stewards’ Decision under review in that matter are quite different to those
here in this matter.
The Sahara Force India F1 team matter involved a post-race hearing into an incident (in other words, it was
not clear to the Stewards who was at fault for the collision in question). The Competitor’s driver was not
available to attend the hearing because he had been taken to hospital following the incident. The hearing
proceeded without the ability for the Competitor to speak with its driver to obtain a version. That happened
after the hearing and the driver’s version put a different light on the facts that had been put to the Stewards.
The distinguishing feature here is that our decision was made in-race. We deemed it unnecessary for us to
hear from SAI or hear from any other driver to decide that he was wholly to blame for the collision. A decision
that we, and other Stewards panels, routinely take and are encouraged to take, when the cause of the
collision is clear and there is a need for time penalties to be issued as quickly as possible.
Further and in any event, we also find as follows:
1. Telemetry: The telemetry data (annexure 4) of itself is not a significant and relevant new element
required to decide who was at fault for the collision. The Stewards have access to a considerable
amount of telemetry data. We were also in a position to access such data. The telemetry data
presented in the Petition is at best ambiguous and in our view did not exculpate SAI but in fact
corroborated our decision that he was wholly to blame for the collision. He says he braked harder
but could not stop the car because of cold tyres. He states further that a slow formation lap
contributed to the cold tyres.
There are two short points. First, even if that is true, the presentation of telemetry showing his braking
point is not a significant new element for the purposes of Art.14.
Second, the conditions of the track and the tyres was something that every competitor needed to
take into account and adapt to. In trying to brake late while racing GAS, he adopted the risk that he,
as a driver, would lose control of his car. In this case, that risk materialised, with the consequence
of a collision that ensued, for which a penalty follows.
2. SAI’s written witness statement (the document itself) is not a new significant and relevant element
required to decide who was at fault for the collision. First, had we thought that this required a
statement from SAI for us to analyse the event, we would have summoned him after the race. We
did not consider it necessary then to hear from him to decide that fact.
His witness statement, in essence, states how poor the grip was (we have dealt with why that is not
a sufficient excuse above) and how the sun was in his eyes. But logic would dictate that the position
of the sun would have equally impacted other drivers too. It is not a justifiable reason to avoid a
penalty for a collision. The witness statement is therefore not a new element either.
3. The other drivers’ statements are not new significant and relevant elements required to decide about
the incident (none of the statements contained new significant and relevant versions about the
collision). These statements were all records of post-race statements given by the drivers to the
media. These were presented to corroborate their position that the grip level was low and that the
tyres were cold.
Again, while these statements were made subsequent to our decision, and therefore could not have
been present when we made the decision, nothing stated in those comments were significant or
indeed relevant to our considerations. This does not satisfy the requirements of Art 14 either.
We accordingly dismissed the Petition.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Christopher McMahon
The Stewards