2023 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 June 2023
From The Stewards Document 48
To The Team Manager, Date 17 June 2023
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:26
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 40) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 27 - Nico Hulkenberg
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 16:59
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 27 failed to stay above the minimum time set by the FIA ECU during a red flag.
Infringment Breach of Article 37.6 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next race in which the driver participates.
1 penalty point, total of 3 for the 12 months period.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 2​​ 7 (Nico Hulkenberg), team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing,
telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver had just finished his fastest lap and had started another push lap. He was
at T1 when the red flag was displayed, however at that point he was already 1.5
seconds over his delta time. He claimed this made it extremely difficult for him to
come below the delta in the next sector. He also admitted to confusion about the
beep signal in his headset, and therefore at one stage thought he was going too slow.
Comparison of telemetry with that of Car 31 showed that in general for the rest of the
lap he was approximately the same speed as Car 31 which complied with the delta
times in each mini-sector. We regard this as a mitigating circumstance.
However, the regulation is very clear and whilst there is no question of the driver
acting dangerously or driving unsafely, there was a breach and thus a penalty has to
be imposed. The normal penalty for failure to slow under red flags is 10 grid positions
however in view of the mitigating circumstance, a lower penalty is appropriate. We
note the intention of the regulation is to ensure a car is not speeding during a red flag
situation and there is no evidence that the speed was excessive in this case.
We also note that the driver should make himself more familiar with the operational
aspects of the delta signals.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Enrique Bernoldi Marcel Demers
The Stewards