2023 DUTCH GRAND PRIX
25 - 27 August 2023
From The Stewards Document 14
To The Team Manager, Date 25 August 2023
Alfa Romeo F1 Team Stake
Time 11:20
The Stewards, having received a report from the Media Delegate, summoned (document 8) and
heard from team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 77 - Valtteri Bottas
Competitor Alfa Romeo F1 Team Stake
Time 13:30
Fact Late attendance of the Thursday media commitments.
InfringementBreach of Article 19.1 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Team reprimand.
Reason The Stewards received a report from the Media Delegate that the the driver of Car 77
(Valterri Bottas), was late for the Thursday media commitments at the TV Pen. The
Stewards heard from the driver, team representative and team media representative
and determined that the driver was indeed late for the TV Pen Interviews.
The team representatives explained that they had swapped the commitment
schedules of their two drivers and had not informed Bottas where he was supposed
to be early enough. They also noted that they stayed additional time to ensure that all
media had the opportunity to talk to him. The FIA Media Delegate informed the
Stewards that the team and driver are generally diligent in their attendance at these
commitments.
As this appears to be a team error the Stewards determined that the most
appropriate penalty would be a reprimand to the team rather than to the driver, with
the warning that further penalties may be considered in case of repetition.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Tim Mayer Felix Holter
Derek Warwick Marc Boonman
The Stewards