2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX
03 - 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 50
To The Team Manager, Scuderia AlphaTauri Date 04 November 2023
Time 14:49
Title Infringement - Car 22 - Failure to follow Race Director's instructions
Description Car 22 - Failure to follow Race Director's instructions
Enclosed BRA DOC 50 - Infringement - TSU - Sprint Shootout SC2-SC1 Times.pdf
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards
2023 S P G P
ÃO AULO RAND RIX
03 – 05 November 2023
From The Stewards Document 50
To All Officials, All Teams Date 04 November 2023
Time 14:49
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following matter
and determine the following:
Session Sprint Shootout
Fact The car below exceeded the 1:14.0-time limit between the Safety Car lines.
No Car Driver Competitor Time of Day Lap
1 22 Yuki Tsunoda Scuderia AlphaTauri 11:09:59 5 (SQ1)
Infringement Breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article
12.2.1 i) of the FIA International Sporting Code (non-compliance with the Race
Director’s Event Notes, item 4.2, document 4).
Decision Reprimand.
Reason The Stewards thoroughly reviewed marshalling/positioning data, timing data and
on-board cameras.
TSU completed a cool-down lap and maintained their delta for most of the lap. TSU
crossed SC2 Line just after LEC who was exiting the pit. Therefore, TSU had to
slow down to create a gap between them and LEC. During the hearing TSU stated
that they felt they had to decide between exceeding the delta time and overtaking
LEC thereby risking impeding the latter.
The Stewards also note that TSU exceeded the delta time by a small margin only.
The Stewards accept that the driver of TSU made reasonable effort to not interfere
with the car in front of them. Nonetheless, the cool-down lap of TSU was not
impacted by other cars on flying laps. The Stewards determine that they could have
done more to manage the delta time in a better way and therefore consider a
reprimand to the driver to be appropriate.
Note Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti
The Stewards