2023 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
05 - 07 May 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Teams, All Officials Date 06 May 2023
Time 21:00
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed MIA DOC 36 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
05 – 07 May 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Officials, All Teams Date 06 May 2023
Time 21:00
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2023 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
• Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to the Pit Lane where
they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3.
• Team mechanics are not permitted to move from their garages to the Parc Fermé with cooling fans
in anticipation of their cars stopping at the end of the Race until after the last car has taken the
chequered flag.
• Any other personnel or VIPs are not permitted to enter the pit lane until after the last car has taken
the chequered flag. Any infringement will result in the removal of passes from the team(s) in question
from subsequent events, and potential reporting of the infringing team(s) to the Stewards.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time once the cars are in the Parc Fermé area (no team PR personnel. Driver physios
must wait outside the cool down room behind the podium until the podium ceremony has
concluded following the instructions given to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole
discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team photographer of the winning driver may also be
permitted in the designated area. All other photographers must remain outside of the designated
area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
• Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
• The post-race interviews will take place in the designated area in Parc Fermé, and the interviewer
will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted via golf buggy
to the cool down room located close to the podium on the opposite side of the Stadium. No other
team personnel will be permitted to use the driver golf buggies. Team personnel must walk
to the podium following the route indicated by local event staff.
1
• Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
• The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
• The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
• The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted via golf buggy by the FIA
Media Delegate to the TV pen located in the middle of the paddock, where they may be accompanied
by their press officers who must wait at the TV Pen entrance.
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the ground floor of the Stadium.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Miami Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Race
F1 Paddock F1 Paddock Awaiting buggies
for top 3 drivers to
go to the podium
Pirelli
Hot Laps FIA Garages Race Control
P
wh
aoA
a er a
g
niti
sr e h p
ar g
ot
d e v
or p
p
F1 Backdrop
FIA
2nd
Scales
1st
Remaining cars
parked here
TTVV RRFF 3rd
CCaammeerraammaann
Pit Wall Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
Grid position
11
Version 1 – 4 May 2023