2023 LAS VEGAS GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 48
To All Teams, All Officials Date 18 November 2023
Time 03:52
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed LAS DOC 48 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2023 L V G P
AS EGAS RAND RIX
16 – 18 November 2023
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 48
To All Officials, All Teams Date 18 November 2023
Time 03:52
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
• The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
• Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to proceed carefully to the Pit
Entry where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 in the fast lane ahead of the FIA
Garages. All other finishing drivers must proceed carefully to the Pit Entry and park along the wall
behind the top three.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait inside the FIA Safety Car
Garage until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given to all
teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other
photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and
Podium procedure.
• Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
• Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
• Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
• Drivers will then be escorted to the grid, where a car will be waiting to transport them to the
Bellagio where the post-race interviews will take place. The interviewer will be selected by the
Commercial Rights Holder.
• Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted back to
the grid, where the podium is located. There is no cool down room at this event.
• Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Cap.
• The drivers will then be escorted onto the podium structure on the grid.
• When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
• The Winning Driver will then be announced and move to their position on the Podium.
1
• The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
• Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
• The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o FIA Medal for the Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
• Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen, located at the Pit Entry end of the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their
press officers who must wait at the TV Pen entrance.
• At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located in the
paddock.
• Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
• Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
2023 Las Vegas Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Race
1 2 3 4 5
FIA FIA FIA FOM RED BULL
RACING
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
WWaaiittiinngg AArreeaa
BACKDROP
Scales
3rd
1st
TTVV RRFF
CCaammeerraammaann
2nd
Pit Wall
PPhhoottooggrraapphheerrss
Top 3 drivers to go
to Bellagio for post
race interview
Version 1 – 17 November 2023