2023 QATAR GRAND PRIX
06 - 08 October 2023
From The Stewards Document 25
To The Team Manager, Date 07 October 2023
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 00:12
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 19 & 20)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 20:37
Session Qualifying
Fact Erratic driving by Car 55 between Turns 10 and 12.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 e) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 5​​ 5 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of Car 1​​
(Max Verstappen), team representatives and reviewed video, timing, team radio and
in-car video evidence.
Car 55 was on a cool-down lap while Car 1 was on a out lap. When Car 1 caught up
on Car 55 and tried to pass, the driver of Car 55 defended his position and did that in
a manner that was reasonably unpredictable for the pursuing car.
During the hearing the driver of Car 55 stated that he could not afford being passed
by another car as he had to stay below the maximum lap time between SC lines 2 and
1. Whilst this was accepted by the Stewards as well as by the driver of Car 1, the
measures taken by Car 55 were deemed to be unnecessary given the fact that the
incident happened in qualifying and cars are not supposed to directly race each other
while preparing for flying laps. The Stewards determine that a warning is appropriate
on this occasion given the circumstances.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Matteo Perini
Danny Sullivan David Domingo
The Stewards