2023 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
22 - 24 September 2023
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 24 September 2023
Williams Racing
Time 12:51
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (documents 28 & 29),
summoned (document 30) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following
matters and determine the following:
No / Driver 2 - Logan Sargeant
Competitor Williams Racing
Time 10:36
Session Qualifying
Fact Modification of parts/changes to the set-up under Parc Fermé conditions and
assembling a chassis to more than an assembly comprising a survival cell, thus
having a third car available to the Competitor.
InfringementBreach of Articles 27.1, 27.2, 40.6 and 40.9 of the FIA Formula One Sporting
Regulations.
Decision Car 2 is required to start the Race from pit lane.
In addition a 10 second time penalty is imposed.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 2 (Logan Sargeant).
The Technical Delegate reported to the Stewards (document 28) that the competitor
worked on the car two hours after the chequered flag. The report mentioned that the
relevant chassis was assembled to more than an assembly comprising a survival cell
as defined in Article 27.2 of the Formula One Sporting Regulations and therefore has
to be considered as a third car available to the competitor. In his further report
document 29, the Technical Delegate explained that during Parc Fermé parts of
different specifications from the ones originally used during Q1 were fitted.
After hearing from the competitor, the Technical Delegate and the Single Seater
Director, the Stewards came to the conclusion that during qualifying (Q1), the
Williams Racing car number 02 suffered an accident where Chassis 01 got damaged
beyond repair. Following the qualifying session, Chassis 03 was then assembled to a
level exceeding that defined in Article 27.2 of the Sporting Regulations, which defines
the state of assembly for a Chassis to be considered to be a car. The Williams
Racing team was therefore found to be in breach of Article 27.1 of the Sporting
Regulations, which states that each Competitor may not have more than two cars
available at any time during a Competition.
Furthermore it should be noted that the available working time during Parc Fermé for
the assembly of a complete car is limited, and hence in case of severe accident, this
may jeopardise the participation of a car in the race. It is also noted that car 2 has
been subjected to a change of specification, and therefore, under Article 40.9 is due
to start the race from the pit lane in any case for a different offence.
According to TD 021/Issue G dated on 22/08/23 the minimum penalty for an offence
will be a start from the pit lane. In addition to this, a further penalty may be imposed by
the Stewards. As a start from pit lane is already imposed for the modification of parts,
a further penalty for having a third chassis available was appropriate.
The Stewards recommend that this issue gets discussed again in the Sporting
Advisory Committee.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matteo Perini
Enrique Bernoldi Kazuhiro Tsuge
The Stewards