2022 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
08 - 11 September 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 10 September 2022
Time 12:59
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed ITA DOC 34 - Post-Qualifying Procedures .pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 I G P
TALIAN RAND RIX
08 – 11 September 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 34
To All Officials, All Teams Date 10 September 2022
Time 12:59
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed on the track once they
have got out of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying
we would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should stay on the track
and proceed to the Start/Finish straight where they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards adjacent to the permanent
podium structure.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in this designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that he goes directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop adjacent to the FIA Garages in
the Pit Lane for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located in the Press Conference building opposite the Alfa Romeo team trucks in the paddock.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located at
the pit entry end of the paddock, and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should
wait to collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session immediately
after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they
participated.
1
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–9
September
2022
Cameraman
TV
RF
Fence
P
muido
Pit
Wall
Fence
Fence
3
rd
1
st 2
nd
FIA
2022
Italian
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Qualifying