2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 60
To The Team Manager, Scuderia Ferrari Date 29 May 2022
Time 21:35
Title Decision - Protest lodged against Car 11
Description Decision - Protest lodged against Car 11
Enclosed MON DOC 60 - Protest Decision against Car 11.pdf
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards
2022 M G P
ONACO RAND RIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 60
To All Teams Date 29 May 2022
Time 21:35
Protests filed by Scuderia Ferrari against Car number 11, driven by Sergion Perez of the
Oracle Red Bull Racing Team
Stewards Decision:
The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
Procedure:
1. On May 29, 2022 following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the Grand Prix of
Monaco, counting towards the 2022 FIA Formula One World Championship, Scuderia Ferrari
lodged a protest against Car 11 (the “car”), entered by Oracle Red Bull Racing Team. Ferrari
claimed in its protest that the car failed to keep to the right of the solid yellow line at the pit
exit when leaving the pits and therefore failed to comply with Section 11.1 of the Race
Director’s Event Notes and therefore breached Article 16.1 of the 2022 FIA Formula One
Sporting Regulations as well as Chapter IV Section 5 of Appendix L of the FIA International
Sporting Code. The parties were summoned and heard. The following persons were present
during the hearing;
On behalf of Red Bull: Jonathan Wheatley
On behalf of Ferrari: Inaki Rueda
On behalf of the FIA Sporting Department : Eduardo Freitas
2. At the hearing there were no objections against the composition of the Stewards panel.
3. It was agreed by all parties that should both protests lodged by Ferrari be admitted, then
these could be heard concurrently as they involved the same type of incident and the same
principles.
4. At the hearing the parties referred to the documents submitted. None of the parties
submitted further evidence or initiated the hearing of additional persons or conducting
further investigations.
On Admissibility
The Stewards FIND that the Protest is admissible and that the requirements of the Code have
been complied with.
The Hearing of the Protest then proceeded.
Hearing:
At the hearing Ferrari conceded that Car 11 did not have any part of its front or rear tyres on the
left of the yellow line and conceded that the Protest was unfounded.
Conclusions of the Stewards:
The Protest is therefore dismissed and the Protest Fee is forfeited.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards,
in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA
Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards