2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 3
To All Teams, All Officials Date 25 May 2022
Time 18:50
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed MON DOC 3 - Event Notes.pdf
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 M G P
ONACO RAND RIX
26 – 29 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 3
To All Teams, All Officials Date 25 May 2022
Time 18:50
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) Laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly during all laps of the qualifying
sessions or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the first free practice session.
5) Article 55.14
(…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede
the restart.(…)
1
6) Parc Fermé Cameras
The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
7) Lapping during the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
8) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1b), this Event is an Open Event.
9) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 6 – 2022-05-16.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
10) Practice starts
10.1 Practice starts may only be carried out on the track at the end of each free practice session. Any car
on the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of
entering the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
10.2 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others, on the same side of the grid, in front to carry out a start
before getting to a grid position further forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a
practice start if another car is still stationary in front of him on the same side of the grid.
10.3 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
2
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
10.4 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open.
11) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
11.1 In accordance with Chapter 4 (Section 5) of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must keep to the right of
the solid yellow line at the pit exit when leaving the pits and stay to the right of this line until it finishes
after Turn 1.
11.2 In order to warn drivers leaving the pits that the pit exit is obstructed, two (2) yellow arrows will be
illuminated, one at the pit exit and one just before Turn 1. If either of these are illuminated, drivers
leaving the pits are permitted to cross the yellow line.
11.3 Except in the cases of force majeure (accepted as such by the Stewards), the crossing by any part
of the car, in any direction, of the blue painted area, between the pit entry and the track, by a driver
who, in the opinion of the Stewards, had committed to entering the pit lane is prohibited.
12) Support Races
12.1 Team Barrier placement
a) Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races:
No more than one (1) metre from the garages.
b) It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in pit
lane.
12.2 Support Category Movements
a) Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to
the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
b) Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier
than 15 minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
13) Pit Lane
13.1 Speed Limit
a) The Pit Lane Speed limit detailed in Article 34.7 of the Sporting Regulations is hereby amended
to 60km/h for the duration of the Event.
13.2 Pit Exit Derestriction Line
a) Please be aware that the derestriction line at the Pit Exit is located after the Control Line in Pit
Lane. The Pit Exit derestriction line is identified as the solid white line and the Control Line is
displayed as a chequered flag.
14) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zone and corresponding light panels are as follows:
DRS Detection: Turn17
DRS Activation: Exit Turn 19
15) Track Limits
15.1 Turn 10
a) A lap time achieved during any practice session or the race by leaving the track and failing to
negotiate Turn 10 by using the track, will result in that lap time being invalidated by the
stewards.
3
15.2 General - Turn 10
a) Each time any car fails to negotiate Turn 10 by using the track as described above, teams will
be informed via the official messaging system.
b) On the second occasion of a driver failing to negotiate Turn 10 by using the track during the
race, he will be shown a black and white flag, any further cutting will then be reported to the
stewards.
c) The above requirements will not automatically apply to any driver who is judged to have been
forced off the track, each such case will be judged individually.
d) In all cases detailed above, the driver must only re-join the track when it is safe to do so and
without gaining a lasting advantage.
15.3 Turn 10-11 Escape Road
a) If a car uses the escape road at Turn 10-11 (Chicane) the driver may re-join the track only
when the lights, operated by the marshal on the spot, are turned green.
16) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences.
17) Places where drivers may leave the track
In all the windows that have the fire extinguisher indications drivers can leave the track.
18) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
19) Removing cars from the grid
Through the Pit Lane Exit.
20) Race Suspension
If the race is suspended, we would like the first car entering the pit lane to stop at the end of the last
garage, rather than going to the pit exit lights. This will provide more room for the teams and allow
any cars permitted to un-lap to be pushed to the front of the line of cars in the fast lane.
21) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
22) Post-race parc fermé
22.1 All cars must enter the pit lane and, with the exception of the first three, should be driven directly to
the weighing area at the pit entry. The first three must follow the post-race procedure which will be
distributed prior to the start of the race.
23) Changes to the circuit
23.1 No changes from last year
4
24) Curfew
Due to the unique logistical challenges presented by the Monaco Grand Prix the following
concessions will be made:
On the Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday for this event only, the curfew period will be extended by
a period of THREE HOURS for a maximum of SIX operational personnel for the sole purpose of
tyre preparation post tyre fitting from the tyre supplier.
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5