2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 - 10 April 2022
From The Stewards Document 32
To The Team Manager, Date 08 April 2022
Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 21:09
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 24) and
heard from the drivers and team representatives and a marshal, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 5 - Sebastian Vettel
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team
Time 14:04
Session Practice 1
Fact The driver of Car 5 drove a scooter on the track within the five-minute window after
the end of Free Practice 1.
Offence Breach of Article 26.7 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Fine of 5,000 euros.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 5 (Sebastian Vettel) and team
representatives and examined video evidence.
The Stewards determine that Car 5 stopped on the circuit due to a mechanical issue.
At the end of the session, VET sought a way to return to his pit. A marshal was at the
location with a scooter. VET asked if he could drive the scooter in order to return to
his pit. The marshal assented. VET got on the scooter, expecting the marshal to get
on behind him. When he didn’t get on, VET departed alone for the pit, without the prior
approval to do so. Meanwhile, the marshal was trying to contact Race Control for
instructions. In driving on the track to his pit, instead of the designated route, VET
breached Article 26.7 of the Formula One Sporting Regulations, which prohibits
anyone from being on the track in the five-minute period after the end of a session,
with the exception of specifically identified personnel, which makes no provision for
drivers to have such access unless specifically authorized.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Dennis Dean
Enrique Bernoldi Matt Selley
The Stewards