2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 23
To The Stewards Date 27 May 2022
Time 20:00
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the first free practice session:
The exhaust system components of car numbers 63, 44, 01, 11, 55, 14, 31, 10, 22, 18, 05, 23, 06,
20 and 47 were checked against the declaration submitted by the relevant team before the Event.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 10.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 10.
During the first free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P1 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the first free practice session:
The fuel pressure of all cars during the first free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the first free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
Before the second free practice session:
A fuel sample was taken from car number 18.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 18.
During the second free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P2 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the second free practice session:
Car number 22 was weighed.
The overall width was checked on car number 22.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the second free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the second free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
The SECU software versions were checked on all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on car numbers 63, 11, 55, 04, 14, 10 and 20.
The torque control was checked on car numbers 63, 11, 55, 04, 14, 10 and 20.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 06.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 06.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2022 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate