2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 44
To The Team Manager, Date 28 May 2022
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 17:34
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 33 & 34)
the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine the
following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 13:51
Session Practice 3
Fact Unnecessary impeding of Car 63 by Car 11 at turn 18.
Offence Breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Formal Warning for the driver.
A fine of €10,000 is imposed of the Competitor.
Reason The Stewards issued summonses to both drivers and team representatives however
each team and driver requested permission not to attend due to the proximity of
Qualifying. The Stewards approved this request.
The Stewards examined video and radio information and concluded that the
information provided by radio to the driver of Car 11 was entirely focussed on setting
up the car for a fast lap and did not include any information about cars approaching
(such as Car 63).
The Stewards concluded that the driver of Car 11 unnecessarily impeded Car 63
however in view of the particular location and circumstances, a penalty of a formal
Warning is imposed on the driver.
As previously noted, the Stewards stress the importance of accurate and swift
communication between the teams and their drivers, and note that drivers must
exercise care in where they position their cars, and their respective speeds, during
Qualification.
The Stewards impose a lesser fine in this case, to that in Document 39, because in
this case there was a lack of information, in that former case there was significant
wrong information.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards