2022 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
06 - 09 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 October 2022
Time 09:20
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed JPN DOC 36 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 J G P
APANESE RAND RIX
06 – 09 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 36
To All Officials, All Teams Date 09 October 2022
Time 09:20
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2022 Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium
Ceremony, the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to Pit Lane where they
will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 in front of the FIA Garages.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room
behind the podium until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given
to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other
approved photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc
Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
(cid:120) Once weighed, the Drivers will be called for their post-race interviews. The post-race interviews will
take place in the designated area, and the interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights
Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
1
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located in Garages 27/28 in the middle of the Pit Garage Complex, where they may
be accompanied by their press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex. Should the World Drivers Championship be decided at this
race, a Champions Press Conference will follow the top three Press Conference.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have
been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–7
October
2022
Pit
Wall
Pit
Wall
Photographers
Fence
Cameraman
TV
RF
Fence
Security
3
rd
parked
here
Security
1
st
Remaining
finishers
F1
Backdrop
2
nd
Podium
Waiting
Area
Photographers
Tower Control Race
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
2022
Japanese
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Race