2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 39
To The Team Manager, Date 28 May 2022
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 15:37
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 29 & 30)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 13:21
Session Practice 3
Fact Unnecessary impeding of Car 18 by Car 55 at turn 19.
Offence Breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Reprimand for the driver.
This is the driver’s 3rd Reprimand of the Season (2nd Driving).
A fine of €25,000 is imposed on the Competitor.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of Car 18
(Lance Stroll) and team representatives and examined video and radio evidence.
Approaching Turns 17 and 18 the driver of Car 55 was given a series of grossly
incorrect messages, by radio, about the gaps to the cars behind. It is unclear to the
Stewards why such misleading information was given to the driver, who was under the
impression that there was no car immediately behind him. Due to the poor rear
visibility at that part of the circuit, the driver was relying entirely on the team’s
messages.
Notwithstanding the above, it was noted that the driver of Car 55 almost came to a
stop on the circuit. This is unacceptable and hence the penalty of a Reprimand is
imposed. We note that similar behaviour by any driver during Qualification may
involve much more severe penalties.
It is also noted that a similar situation occurred in relation to the incident involving Car
5 later in the session, where once again incorrect information was passed by the
team to the driver, and again the driver of Car 55 was driving slower that can be
considered reasonable in view of the location and circumstances.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards