2022 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
07 - 10 July 2022
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 08 July 2022
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 20:57
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 20) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter, and determine
the following:
No / Driver 11 - Sergio Perez
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 17:39
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 11 left the track without a justifiable reason at T8.
Offence Breach of Article 33.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Deletion of lap time on lap 17.
Deletion of all lap times in Q3
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 11 (Sergio Perez) and team
representatives and examined video evidence.
Perez left the track at Turn 8 on his last flying lap of Q2, just prior to the end of the
session. As this was not identified until the moment before Q3 started, the lap was not
deleted prior to the start of Q3 and Perez started Q3. This is a consequence of
having many situations to examine in each session. The video was clear and there is
no doubt of the breach, which the team admitted.
The team made the point that leaving the track at this point is not a clear advantage
and brought data to support that point. However, the stewards considered that this
was not a case of “gaining a lasting advantage”, but rather is “leaving the track
without a justifiable reason”, which is another part of the same rule and which is the
section that is being applied to qualifying sessions.
This situation, where a driver moves through to a subsequent round of qualifying, and
then is identified as having committed a track limits breach, does not happen regularly
and certainly not recently. Thus the stewards have to examine this as a new situation.
The team made the point that they took both risk and expended resources to compete
in Q3. The stewards accept this point. However, in assessing a penalty after a
session, this is no different than any other situation.
The usual penalty is deleting the lap time concerned, and the stewards order the
same penalty here. However, as a consequence, the driver would not have
proceeded into Q3 and therefore, in fairness to all the other competitors, the
stewards order that all the lap times for Q3 for the driver also are deleted.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Tim Mayer Silvia Bellot
Enrique Bernoldi Walter Jobst
The Stewards