2022 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
5 - 8 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 5
To All Teams, All Officials Date 05 May 2022
Time 16:40
Title Scrutineering Declaration Form
Description Scrutineering Declaration Form
Enclosed MIA DOC 5 - Scrutineering Declaration Form.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
4 - 8 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 5
To All Teams, All Officials Date 5 May 2022
Time 16:40
Note to the Teams
1) Scrutineering Declaration Form Template - Appendix L, Chapter III - Drivers’ Equipment
The scrutineering declaration form template, as described in Article 31.1 of the Formula 1 Sporting
Regulations, has been amended for this event to include checks relating to compliance with Appendix L
to the International Sporting Code (ISC), Chapter III, specifically Article 2 concerning compliant underwear
and Article 5 concerning the wearing of jewellery.
For clarity Appendix L to the ISC, Chapter III includes:
2. Flame-resistant clothing
“(…) Drivers and co-drivers participating in the championships listed below must wear overalls as
well as gloves (optional for co-drivers), long underwear, a balaclava, socks and shoes homologated
to the FIA 8856-2018 standard (Technical List No 74):
(…) * Formula One World Championship (…)
In case of justified medical reasons, non FIA-approved underwear may be worn between the
driver’s skin and the compulsory FIA-approved underwear. However, the use of synthetic, non-
flameproof materials in contact with the driver’s skin is not authorised.
Drivers and co-drivers can wear additional flameproof underwear, which is not FIA approved,
between their skin and the compulsory FIA-approved underwear.”
5. Wearing of jewellery
“The wearing of jewellery in the form of body piercing or metal neck chains is prohibited during the
competition and may therefore be checked before the start.”
In relation to Appendix L, Chapter III, Article 2 the following additional note is provided for the information
of all teams and all officials:
The above noted regulation is written to ensure that the FIA-approved Flame-resistant clothing,
including both the outer layer overalls and inner layer in contact with the skin can operate effectively
and provide the designed level of protection if exposed to flames.
The use of non-flameproof materials in contact with the driver’s skin, and in particular synthetic
materials, can reduce heat transmission protection and thus increase the risk of burn injuries in the
event of a fire. In the worst case such materials may melt which can hinder treatment in the event
of a burn injury.
In relation to Appendix L, Chapter III, Article 5 the following additional note is provided for the information
of all teams and all officials:
The above noted regulation is written in consideration that the wearing of jewellery underneath the
required flameproof clothing can reduce the protection afforded by this equipment. Metallic objects,
such as jewellery, in contact with the skin can reduce heat transmission protection and thus may
increase the risk of burn injuries in the event of a fire.
The wearing of jewellery during the competition can hinder both medical interventions as well as
subsequent diagnosis and treatment should it be required following an accident.
The presence of jewellery can slow, due to the risk of “snagging”, the emergency removal of driver
safety equipment such as helmet, balaclava, and overalls.
In the case that medical imaging is required to inform diagnosis following an accident the presence
of jewellery on the body can cause significant complication and delay. In the worst case the
presence of jewellery during imaging may cause further injury.
Jewellery in and/or around the airway can pose specific additional risks should it become dislodged
during an accident and either ingested or inhaled.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director