2022 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
29 September - 02 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 01 October 2022
Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN
Time 17:22
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 16), summoned
(document 20) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 77 - Valtteri Bottas
Competitor Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN
Time 21:00
Session Practice 1
Fact Failing to electronically return tyres within the time specified.
Offence Breach of Article 30.5 i) iii of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (Alfa Romeo F1 Team ORLEN) is fined €5,000
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 77 (Valtteri Bottas)
Article 30.5 i) iii) FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations requires the electronic return
of two (2) sets of dry-weather tyres allocated to each driver no later than two (2)
hours after the end of P1. Article 30.4 b) requires the electronically returned tyres to
be physically returned to the appointed tyre supplier before the start of the following
session, in this case P2.
The Technical Delegate reported that the Team had failed to electronically return
such tyres for Car 77 within 2 hours of the end of P1. The Authorised Representative
acknowledged the breach and explained that the engineer responsible for this task
had overlooked doing so. The Technical Delegate had confirmed with the appointed
tyre supplier that, while the electronic return had not occurred, the tyres had been
physically returned to the appointed tyre supplier before the start of P2.
Compliance with the electronic return protocol is important. The FIA relies on the
submission of the electronic return to monitor the use of tyres so as to ensure that
allocated tyres are not misused. According to the Technical Delegate, he has had to
remind this Team a number of times this season to submit electronic returns which
have been overlooked. This was not disputed by the team representative.
Although no sporting advantage could have been gained by the oversight in this case
because the tyres had been physically returned and could not therefore be re-used,
nonetheless a technical breach of the regulations has been committed. The Stewards
impose a fine of Euro 5000 on the team.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits
Gerd Ennser Matt Selley
Derek Warwick Nish Shetty
The Stewards