2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 59
To The Team Manager, Scuderia Ferrari Date 29 May 2022
Time 21:30
Title Decision - Protest lodged against Car 1
Description Decision - Protest lodged against Car 1
Enclosed MON DOC 59 - Protest Decision against Car 1.pdf
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards
2022 M G P
ONACO RAND RIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 59
To All Teams Date 29 May 2022
Time 21:30
Protests filed by Scuderia Ferrari against Car number 1, driven by Max Verstappen of the
Oracle Red Bull Racing Team
Stewards Decision:
The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
Procedure:
1. On May 29, 2022 following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the Grand Prix of
Monaco, counting towards the 2022 FIA Formula One World Championship, Scuderia Ferrari
lodged a protest against Car 1 (the “car”), entered by Oracle Red Bull Racing Team. Ferrari
claimed in its protest that the car failed to keep to the right of the solid yellow line at the pit
exit when leaving the pits and therefore failed to comply with Section 11.1 of the Race
Director’s Event Notes and therefore breached Article 16.1 of the 2022 FIA Formula One
Sporting Regulations as well as Chapter IV Section 5 of Appendix L of the FIA International
Sporting Code. The parties were summoned and heard. The following persons were present
during the hearing;
On behalf of Red Bull: Jonathan Wheatley
On behalf of Ferrari: Inaki Rueda
On behalf of the FIA Sporting Department: Eduardo Freitas
2. At the hearing there were no objections against the composition of the Stewards panel.
3. It was agreed by all parties that should both protests lodged by Ferrari be admitted, and
then these could be heard concurrently as they involved the same type of incident and the
same principles.
4. At the hearing, the parties referred to the documents submitted. None of the parties
submitted further evidence or initiated the hearing of additional persons or conducting
further investigations.
On Admissibility
The Stewards FIND that the Protest is admissible and that the requirements of the Code have
been complied with.
The Hearing of the Protest then proceeded.
The claims of Ferrari:
That on the exit from the pits on lap 23, Car 1 put part of its left front and rear tyres on the tarmac
on the LEFT side of the yellow line.
That this was in breach of the Race Director’s Event Notes (“Notes”).
That similar actions (for example Tsunoda in Austria 2021) resulted in a penalty being applied.
That the Notes indicate to the teams how they are to act and the teams abide by them even if they
are in contradiction to the ISC.
Red Bull’s arguments in defence:
That car 1 was still to the right of the yellow line.
That in any case, there was no breach of the International Sporting Code.
The Race Director stated:
That Article 5 of Appendix L of the ISC had changed from 2021 to 2022.
That the Notes were a “cut and paste” from the 2021 version of the Notes and hence had not
been changed to reflect the 2022 Appendix L changes.
Stipulation:
All parties agreed that Car 1 did have part of its front left and rear left tyre on the left side of the
yellow line.
All parties agreed that most of the left front and left rear tyres of that car remained on the yellow
line.
Conclusions of the Stewards:
Having considered the various statements made by the parties, and having reviewed the case of
Car 18 in the 2021 Monaco Grand Prix, which involved a similar situation to this, the Stewards
determine the following:
1. Article 2.1 of the 2022 Formula One Sporting Regulations provides that “All…officials..undertake
to observe all the provisions of …the Code, …..the Formula One Sporting Regulations…”.
2. This places an obligation on the Race Director (and the Stewards) to comply with those regulations.
3. Accordingly, the Notes issued by the Race Director cannot contradict the Code or the Formula One
Sporting Regulations
4. Article 5 c) of Chapter IV of Appendix L of the Code stipulates that at the pit exit a car “must not
cross” the line.
5. In this case, the car did not “cross” the line – to do so it would have needed to have a full wheel to
the left of the yellow line.
6. Accordingly the driver did not breach the relevant section of the Code and this takes precedent
over any interpretation of the Notes.
The Protest is therefore dismissed and the Protest Fee is forfeited.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards,
in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA
Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Andrew Mallalieu
Derek Warwick Jean-Francois Calmes
The Stewards