2022 AUSTRIAN GRAND PRIX
07 - 10 July 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 35
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 July 2022
Time 14:40
Title Post-Sprint Procedure
Description Post-Sprint Procedure
Enclosed AUT DOC 35 - Post-Sprint Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 A G P
USTRIAN RAND RIX
07 – 10 July 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 35
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 July 2022
Time 14:40
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed on the track once
they have got out of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the
Sprint we would like to ask for your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• Once they receive the chequered flag, Drivers who finish the Sprint in the top three (3) positions will be
required to stay on the track and return to the Grid where they will find the boards showing positions
from 1, 2, 3 located in the vicinity of Grid Position 11.
• All remaining cars must enter Pit Lane and park in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the
FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the designated area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) After the Drivers have been weighed, they will be escorted to the “Sprint Ceremony” area in the Pit
Lane. During the Sprint Ceremony, the Drivers will be interviewed and presented with their Sprint
awards.
(cid:120) Should a driver from either the Red Bull Racing or Scuderia AlphaTauri teams win the Sprint, they will
go on a victory lap at the conclusion of the Sprint Ceremony.
(cid:120) Once the interviews are concluded, the top three (3) Drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
across the track to the FIA Press Conference located on the ground floor of the Media Centre Building
opposite the paddock.
(cid:120) At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will go to the TV pen, located at the
Pit Entry end of the Paddock behind the FIA Garages and they may be accompanied by their press
officers, who should wait to collect their drivers at the back of the press conference room.
(cid:120) Drivers classified from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen immediately after they have
been weighed in the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until
after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a virtual session for the written media organized
after the Sprint session must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV
pen once their TV interviews have concluded.
1
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the Sprint session are required to go to the TV pen and written media zone as
soon as they have come back into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Sprint Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–8
July
2022
Grid
Box
11
3 rd
Cameraman
TV
RF
1
st
2 nd
Pit
Wall
Pit
Wall
Podium
F1
Backdrop
2022
Austrian
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Sprint
ecneF