2022 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
29 September - 02 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 35
To The Team Manager, Date 01 October 2022
Haas F1 Team
Time 21:20
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (Document 30) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 47 - Mick Schumacher
Competitor Haas F1 Team
Time 18:45
Session Practice 3
Fact Car 47 was released from its pit box, stopped and returned to check the rear right
wheel was secure.
Offence Alleged breach of Article 34.14 c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and examined video and audio
evidence.
Car 47 entered its pit box during the session to change from wet to intermediate
tyres. The car was released and the right rear wheel gun operator signalled to the car
controller to stop the car. The driver stopped the car within 2 car lengths of the pit box
and before it entered the fast lane. It was pushed back to its pit box and the rear right
wheel was removed and refitted.
The Authorised Representative explained that the gun operator was unsure the wheel
was secure and for that reason signalled to stop the car out of an abundance of
caution. The hub may have not locked into the pegs but there was no evidence that it
was loose.
The Technical Delegate viewed the footage and suggested that it was inconclusive as
to whether the wheel was loose.
There being insufficient evidence to establish that the wheel was loose, there is no
basis to find that the car was released in an unsafe condition. We therefore
determine to take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Matt Selley
Derek Warwick Nish Shetty
The Stewards