2022 BRAZILIAN GRAND PRIX
10 - 13 November 2022
From The Stewards Document 58
To The Team Manager, Date 13 November 2022
McLaren F1 Team
Time 18:20
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 3 - Daniel Ricciardo
Competitor McLaren F1 Team
Time 15:03
Session Race
Fact Causing a collision
Offence Breach of Appendix L Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions at the Driver’s next event.
2 penalty points (total of 8 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 3 (Daniel Ricciardo), the driver of car 20
(Kevin Magnussen) and team representatives The Stewards reviewed the video from
several angles and reviewed GPS data presented by the McLaren team and
telemetry from their own sources.
Ricciardo made contact with Magnussen at Turn 8 on lap one, which caused
Magnussen to spin, and subsequently both cars crashed. McLaren explained that in
their view Magnussen was slower at the exit of turn eight than the other cars ahead,
which made it difficult to judge the closing rate, as the two cars interacted. Ricciardo
explained that in his view, he had slowed sufficiently that he was not going to collide
with Magnussen and that he slightly misjudged it.
The Stewards acknowledged that the incident was not reckless. However, they
determined that the incident was between two cars and was not influenced by multiple
other cars and is therefore not a “first lap incident.” The Stewards determined that
Magnussen drove in a normal manner for that corner, and that he did not make any
erratic moves. Thus the Stewards determine that Ricciardo was wholly to blame for
the incident and issue a drop of three grid places for the next event.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Tim Mayer Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Roberto Pupo Moreno
The Stewards