2022 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
21 - 24 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 16
To All Teams, All Officials Date 22 April 2022
Time 15:10
Title Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Description Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Enclosed EMI DOC 16 - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 E R G P
MILIA OMAGNA RAND RIX
21 – 24 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 16
To All Teams, All Officials Date 22 April 2022
Time 15:10
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed in the Pit Lane
in front of the FIA Garages once they have got out of their cars.
Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for
your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should proceed directly to
the Pit Lane where the 1, 2, 3 boards which will be located at the pit lane entry in front of the Race
Control Tower.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the
FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in this designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If one (1) of the top three (3) drivers is already in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should
ensure that he goes directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop underneath the podium for the
Top 3 and Pirelli Award photo opportunities.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate to Q1 but are eligible to race must attend the TV interview session in the paddock behind
the FIA garages after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in
which they participated.
• The top three drivers must also attend the TV interview session after they have completed their parc
fermé interviews.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
(cid:3)
2202
lirpA
22–
1
noisreV
ecneF
gniyfilauQ
-
emreF
craP
xirP
dnarG
angamoR
ailimE
2202
devorppA
srehpargotohp
aera
gnitiaw
muidoP
pordkcaB
AIF
dn2
ts1
FR
VT
dr3
namaremaC
ecneF
srehpargotohP