2022 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
21 - 24 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 April 2022
Time 15:00
Title Race Director's Note - Post-Sprint Procedures
Description Race Director's Note - Post-Sprint Procedures
Enclosed EMI DOC 34 - Post-Sprint Procedures.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 E R G P
MILIA OMAGNA RAND RIX
21 – 24 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 April 2022
Time 15:00
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST SPRINT PROCEDURE
The Post-Sprint interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed in the Pit Lane
they have got out of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of the
Sprint we would like to ask for your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• Once they receive the chequered flag, Drivers who finish the Sprint in the top three (3) positions will be
required to return to the Pit Lane where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 located
at the pit entry.
• All remaining cars must enter Pit Lane and park in front of the FIA garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the
FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the designated area at this time.
 Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
 Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
 After the Drivers have been weighed, they will be escorted to the “Sprint Ceremony” area in the Pit
Lane. During the Sprint Ceremony, the Drivers will be interviewed and presented with their Sprint
awards.
 Once the interviews are concluded, the top three (3) Drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the FIA Press Conference located on the first floor of the paddock building at the pit exit end of the
paddock.
 At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will go to the TV pen, located at the
Pit Entry end of the Paddock behind the FIA Garages and they may be accompanied by their press
officers, who should wait to collect their drivers at the back of the press conference room.
 Drivers classified from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen immediately after they have
been weighed in the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until
after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
 Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a virtual session for the written media organized
after the Sprint Qualifying session must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent
1
to the TV pen once their TV interviews have concluded.
 Drivers who retire during the Sprint Qualifying session are required to go to the TV pen and written
media zone as soon as they have come back into the paddock.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2
2022 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Sprint
Podium
Backdrop
2nd
Remaining finishers
parked here
TV RF
1st
Cameraman
3rd
Photographers
Version 2 –23 April 2022