2022 HUNGARIAN GRAND PRIX
28 - 31 July 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 11
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 July 2022
Time 12:50
Title Race Director's Event Notes V2
Description Race Director's Event Notes V2
Enclosed HUN DOC 11 - Event Notes v2.pdf
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 H G P
UNGARIAN RAND RIX
28 – 31 July 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 11
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 July 2022
Time 12:50
EVENT NOTES V2 (Changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the Stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) Laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the second free practice session.
5) Article 55.14
(…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede
the restart.(…)
1
6) Parc Fermé Cameras
The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
7) Lapping during the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
8) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1b), this Event is an Open Event.
9) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 6 – 2022-05-16.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
10) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than approximately three meters from the garages.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
2
11) Positioning of the car on track during Free Practices and Qualifying
In the event of fast approaching cars, drivers are requested to go offline after Turn 11 and bear totally
off the racing line until SC Line 2 to avoid any high-speed differential between the cars on track.
To help mitigate any differences in speed, cars on out or slow laps are requested to stay offline
where possible between Turn 11 and the first Safety Car Line.
12) Practice starts
12.1 Practice starts may be carried out at pit exit, on the right-hand side and for avoidance of doubt, this
includes any time the pit exit is open for the race.
12.2 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
12.3 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, at any time the pit exit is open and when practice starts
are permitted to be carried out, any car who wishes to perform a practice start must form up in a line
and leave in the order they got there unless another car is unduly delayed.
12.4 Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each free practice session. Any car on
the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of entering
the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
12.5 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
12.6 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
13) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
13.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 5 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
13.2 Drivers leaving the track to enter the pit entry road, must pass on the right-hand side of the bollard
placed on SC line 1.
13.3 After Safety Car line 2, there is a continuous white line separating the cars coming from the pits from
the cars on track. For safety reasons, drivers leaving the pits, must respect the afore mentioned line
even after Safety Car line 2.
Article 5 c) from Chapter IV of Appendix L has its application extended to this line.
13.4 The dotted white lines across the pit entry and the pit exit are the track edge.
14) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 19,1,2 & 3
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 3, 4 & 5
15) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges.
16) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences and
barriers.
3
17) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by orange panels on the barriers.
If it is safe to do so, ideally drivers should try to stop on the right-hand side of the track.
Please bear in mind that drivers should wear their overalls, gloves and balaclava when being
transported back to the pits.
18) Removing cars from the grid
18.1 Through the two gates in the pit wall, the first is located adjacent to grid position 6 and the second
located adjacent to grid position 18.
18.2 The pit lane has a small ramp down from the track which may result in cars grounding when pushed
off the grid. It is therefore important that someone from your team is present, close to the gate nearest
your grid positions, to assist marshals if a car must be pushed off the grid after the start of the
formation lap or after the start of the race.
19) Race Suspension
In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane of the pits in front of the pit exit
lights.
20) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
21) Teams Guests
21.1 We remind teams that guests are included in the category of participants as defined in Article 20 of
the International Sporting Code. At the same time, Article 9.15 from the International Sporting Code
states that the competitor is responsible for all to the people that on his/her responsibility have access
to reserved areas. The pit lane and the grid are reserved areas.
21.2 Teams may not allow their guests in the pit lane during the time the pit exit is open, for cars to access
the starting grid.
21.3 At the end of the race, teams may not allow their guest on the pit lane until all cars capable to do so
on their own, have accessed the Parc Fermé. Only then may teams allow the guest to head to the
podium via the pit lane.
22) Changes to the circuit
22.1 The numbering of the Marshal Posts is now in line with the requirements of Appendix H of the
International Sporting Code.
22.2 The longitudinal deterrent at the exit of T5 has been removed.
22.3 The deterrents placed just before and after the apex of T7 have both been removed.
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
4