2022 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
19 - 22 May 2022
From The Stewards Document 46
To The Team Manager, Date 21 May 2022
Haas F1 Team
Time 20:39
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 36 & 37)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 47 - Mick Schumacher
Competitor Haas F1 Team
Time 16:16
Session Qualifying
Fact Driving unnecessarily slowly on multiple laps during Qualifying.
Offence Breach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Notes (Point 4 of Document 34).
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 20 (Kevin Magnussen), the driver of Car
47 (Mick Schumacher) and team representatives, and examined video, timing and
positioning data.
During the Qualifying practice there were 55 violations by 18 drivers of the Race
Director’s Event Notes (Point 4) regarding minimum time between SC1 and SC2. The
Stewards reviewed each case, and the majority of cases were a result of drivers
following another driver who was also on an out lap and as each driver attempted to
create a gap to the preceding driver, they went successively slower until a "train" of
drivers exceeded the minimum time.
However, on the five occasions when these "trains" developed during the out laps of
qualifying, the driver of car 47, Mick Schumacher, and the driver of car 20, Kevin
Magnussen were the first, or nearly the first, out of the pits due to their garage
location, and so were able to control their speed without having to be concerned
about cars in front of them. Further, the Stewards found that generally the cars that
failed to follow the Race Director’s Event Note, were following these two cars.
The procedure required by the note is relatively new and was introduced during this
season and has not involved a penalty up to this point. However, for the reasons
above, the Stewards determine that these drivers’ failure to follow the instructions
was more under their control than any other drivers. As the procedure is new and in
view of the fact that other drivers did violate the instruction, but not to this degree, the
Stewards issue a warning to the drivers concerned. The Stewards note that further
violations may incur increased penalties not only for these drivers but for any
competitor committing a similar breach in the future.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Tim Mayer Nish Shetty
Tonio Luizzi David Domingo
The Stewards