2022 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
5 - 8 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Press Delegate Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 07 May 2022
Time 12:40
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed MIA DOC 34 - Post-Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Press Delegate
2022 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
5 - 8 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 34
To All Teams, All Officials Date 7 May 2022
Time 12:40
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed in the Pit Lane
in front of the FIA Garages once they have got out of their cars.
Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for
your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should stay on the track
and proceed to the Grid where the 1, 2, 3 boards which will be located in the vicinity of Grid Position
11.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the
FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in this designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If one (1) of the top three (3) drivers is already in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should
ensure that he goes directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop in front of the FIA Garages for
the Top 3 and Pirelli Award photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the ground floor of the Stadium complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located at
the pit entry end of the paddock and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should wait
to collect their drivers at the back of the Press Conference Room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session after they have
been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
1
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
gniyfilauQ
-
emreF
craP
xirP
dnarG
imaiM
2202
lortnoC
ecaR
AIF AIF
pordkcaB
srac
gniniameR
ereh
dekrap
llaW
tiP
llaW
tiP
AIF
selacS
dn2
ts1
FR
VT
namaremaC
dr3
noitisop
dirG
11
2202
yaM
5–
1
noisreV