2022 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
20 - 23 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 41
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 October 2022
Time 12:15
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed USA DOC 41 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 U S G P
NITED TATES RAND RIX
20 – 23 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 41
To All Officials, All Teams Date 23 October 2022
Time 12:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to Pit Lane where they
will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 underneath the Podium at the Pit Entry.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room
behind the podium until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given
to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other
approved photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc
Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – “For the
duration of the Post Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race
in positions 1, 2, 3 must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened
to the waist.”
(cid:120) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
(cid:120) Once weighed, the Drivers will be called for their post-race interviews. The post-race interviews will
take place in the designated area, and the interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights
Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
1
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located at the Pit Entry end of the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their
press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located in the
Media Centre Building.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have
been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–21
October
2022
Pit
Wall
Fence
Cameraman
TV
RF
2
nd
1
st
Fireman
3
rd
1
2
3
Fence
file
along
the
left
of
pit
entry
Remaining
finishers
parked
in
single
F1
Backdrop Podium
2022
United
States
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Race