2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 - 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 36
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 April 2022
Time 13:02
Title Race Director's Event Notes V2
Description Race Director's Event Notes V2
Enclosed AUS DOC 36 - Race Director's Event Notes V2.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 – 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 36
To All Teams, All Officials Date 9 April 2022
Time 13:00
EVENT NOTES V2 (changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
1.1 The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
2.1 For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) In laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the first day of practice.
5) Article 55.14
5.1 (…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or
impede the restart.(…)
6) Appendix L, Chapter III, 5 Wearing of jewellery
6.1 The wearing of jewellery in the form of body piercing or metal neck chains is prohibited during the
competition and my therefore be checked before the start.
7) Parc Fermé Cameras
7.1 The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
8) Article 43.2
8.1 (…) All drivers going to the pit exit at this time must do so at a constant speed and with constant
throttle. This applies over the whole pit lane. (…)
9) Lapping during the race
9.1 The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
10) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
10.1 In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1b), this Event is an Open Event.
11) Changes to the circuit
The right-hand side of the track approaching Turn 1 has been widened by approximately 2.5m and
the barriers realigned as a result and a new apex kerb of the same type has been installed at Turn
1
The barriers in the run off area at Turn 1 have been realigned and Tecpro barrier added in the
straight-ahead position.
The right-hand side barrier at Turn 2 has been realigned
The right-hand side of the track approaching Turn 3 has been widened by approximately 4m and the
barriers realigned as a result and a new combination apex kerb has been installed at Turn 3
The right hands side vehicle opening located approximately 150m prior to Turn 3 has been removed.
The left-hand side wall at the exit of Turn 5 has been realigned closer to the edge of the track.
The apex of Turn 6 has moved outward by approximately 8m, the right-hand side barriers have been
realigned as a result and a new apex kerb of the same type has been installed
The barriers in the run off area at Turn 6 have been realigned. With the addition of Tecpro barrier to
the existing tyre barrier.
The Turn 7 apex kerb has been extended by approximately 20m at the departure end.
Turn 9 and 10 have been removed and the track and barrier configuration has been completely
realigned
The Tecpro Barrier in the Turn 10 (previously Turn 12) run off area has been upgraded and extended
back towards the vehicle opening.
Turn 11 (previously Turn 13) has been completely reconfigured. A combination kerb has been
installed on the apex and a double kerb has been installed in the exit.
The apex of Turn 13 (previously Turn15) has moved outward by approximately 2m and a new
combination apex kerb has been installed
The left-hand side barrier at the exit of Turn 14 (previously Turn 16) has been realigned closer to the
edge of the track.
The F1 pit lane has been widened by approximately 2m and completely resurfaced.
The right-hand side verge on the pit straight has been removed to facilitate the widening of the pit
lane and as a result the barrier is on the edge of the track.
The track has been completely resurfaced.
12) Specific Technical Procedures
12.1 Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 5 – 2022-03-16.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
13) Pit Lane Walk and Support Races team barrier placement
13.1 Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races and
during all pit lane walks: On the joint between the asphalt and the concrete.
14) Practice starts
14.1 Practice starts may be carried out on the asphalt on the right-hand side of the fast lane immediately
after the pit exit line and, for the avoidance of doubt, this includes any time the pit exit is open for the
race.
14.2 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
14.3 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, at any time the pit exit is open and when practice starts
are permitted to be carried out, any car who wishes to perform a practice start must form up in a line
and leave in the order they got there unless another car is unduly delayed.
15) Lines or bollards at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
15.1 In accordance with Chapter 4 (Section 5) of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must keep to the right of
the solid yellow line at the pit exit when leaving the pits. No part of any car leaving the pits may cross
this line.
15.2 For safety reasons, drivers must keep to the right of the bollard immediately at the pit entry when
they are entering the pits.
15.3 Except in the cases of force majeure (accepted as such by the Stewards), the crossing by any part
of the car, in any direction, of the white line immediately prior to the pit entry or the red and white
painted area between the pit entry and the track, by a driver who, in the opinion of the Stewards, had
committed to entering the pit lane is prohibited.
16) DRS
16.1 DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) Zone 1: Panels 15, 16, 17
b) Zone 2: Panels 1, 2, 20
c) Zone 3: Panels 3, 4, 5
17) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
17.1 Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences.
18) Places where drivers may leave the track
18.1 Indicated by white boards with a green running man image attached to the debris fences.
19) Places to remove cars from the track
19.1 Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
20) Removing cars from the grid
20.1 Through the Pit Exit or the gate in the pit wall adjacent to grid position 10.
20.2 Should a car stop on the track during a session, the driver must keep all of their protective clothing
(Helmet, Gloves, etc) on until they have returned to their garage.
21) Car number light panels for the start
21.1 On the left-hand side of the grid.
22) Post-race parc fermé
22.1 All cars must enter the pit lane and, with the exception of the first three, should be driven directly to
the weighing area. The first three must be driven down the pit lane to the control tower without
stopping.
23) Any other business
Niels Wittich
FIA Formula One Race Director