2022 BRAZILIAN GRAND PRIX
10 - 13 November 2022
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 41
To The Stewards Date 12 November 2022
Time 19:38
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the second free practice session:
The uppermost rear wing element adjustable positions were checked on car number 14.
The minimum distance between the adjacent rear wing sections at any longitudinal vertical plane was
checked on car number 14.
During the second free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P2 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
After the second free practice session:
The fuel pressure of all cars during the second free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the second free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The IVT code and calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars.
Torque sensor software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
Torque sensor calibration checks have been carried out on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 10
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 10.
Before the sprint:
A fuel sample was taken from car numbers 20.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 20.
On the grid it was checked that all cars had fitted their tyres when the “5-Minutes” signal was given.
On the grid the temperature of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked on car numbers
63, 01, 11, 55, 04, 14, 05, 23, 24, 20 and 47.
On the grid the minimum tyre starting pressure of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked
on all cars.
After the sprint:
The following cars were weighed:
Number Car Driver
63 Mercedes George Russell
44 Mercedes Lewis Hamilton
01 Red Bull Racing RBPT Max Verstappen
11 Red Bull Racing RBPT Sergio Perez
16 Ferrari Charles Leclerc
55 Ferrari Carlos Sainz
03 McLaren Mercedes Daniel Ricciardo
04 McLaren Mercedes Lando Norris
14 Alpine Renault Fernando Alonso
10 AlphaTauri RBPT Pierre Gasly
22 AlphaTauri RBPT Yuki Tsunoda
18 Aston Martin Mercedes Lance Stroll
05 Aston Martin Mercedes Sebastian Vettel
06 Williams Mercedes Nicholas Latifi
77 Alfa Romeo Racing Ferrari Valtteri Bottas
24 Alfa Romeo Racing Ferrari Zhou Guanyu
20 Haas Ferrari Kevin Magnussen
47 Haas Ferrari Mick Schumacher
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
The following aerodynamic component or bodywork areas were checked on car numbers 55 and 10:
- Floor Body - TR Article 3.5.1
- Floor Fences - TR Article 3.5.2
- Floor Edge Wing - TR Article 3.5.3
- Bib - TR Article 3.5.4
- Nose - TR Article 3.6.1
- Forward Chassis - TR Article 3.6.2
- Mid Chassis - TR Article 3.6.3
- Sidepod - TR Article 3.7.1
- Coke Panel - TR Article 3.7.2
- Engine Cover - TR Article 3.7.3
- Front Wing Endplate body - TR Article 3.9.2
- Front Wing Tip - TR Article 3.9.3
- Front Wing Diveplane - TR Article 3.9.4
- Front Wing Endplate - TR Article 3.9.5
- Rear Wing Profiles - TR Article 3.10.1
- Pylons - TR Article 3.10.2
- Rear Wing Beam - TR Article 3.10.3
- Rear Wing Endplate Body - TR Article 3.10.4
- Rear Wing Tip - TR Article 3.10.5
- Rear Wing Endplate - TR Article 3.10.7
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The plenum temperature was checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the race.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The brake temperature warnings were checked on all cars.
The race start data of all cars have been checked.
Single clutch paddle use for the race start has been checked on all cars.
The MGU-K use at the race start was checked on all cars.
It was checked on all cars that the ES was not charged while the car was stationary in the pits.
It was checked that no car exceeded 80 km/h when leaving the formation grid prior to the start of the
race.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash display configuration was not changed during Parc
Fermé.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during the race were checked.
The tyres used by all drivers during the race today have been checked.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the race was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the race was checked on all cars.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars as checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 01.
The fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of all the fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been
approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 01.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
All car weights and the items checked were found to be in conformity with the 2022 FIA Formula One
Technical Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate