2022 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
19 - 22 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 12
To All Teams, All Officials Date 20 May 2022
Time 13:00
Title Race Director's Event Notes V2
Description Race Director's Event Notes V2
Enclosed ESP DOC 12 - Event Notes v2.pdf
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 S G P
PANISH RAND RIX
19 – 22 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 12
To All Teams, All Officials Date 20 May 2022
Time 13:00
EVENT NOTES V2 (changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) Laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly during all laps of the qualifying
sessions or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the first free practice session.
5) Article 55.14
(…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede
the restart.(…)
1
6) Parc Fermé Cameras
The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
7) Lapping during the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
8) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1b), this Event is an Open Event.
9) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 6 – 2022-05-16.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
10) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
10.1 Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: On the
white line, no more than three meters twenty from the red line under the frontal garage shutter.
10.2 It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
10.3 Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
10.4 Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
2
11) Practice starts
11.1 Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each free practice session. Any car on
the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of entering
the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
11.2 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others, on the same side of the grid, in front to carry out a start
before getting to a grid position further forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a
practice start if another car is still stationary in front of him on the same side of the grid.
11.3 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
11.4 Practice starts may only be carried out at the pit exit on the right-hand side and, for the avoidance of
doubt, this includes any time the pit exit is open for the race.
11.5 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason)
12) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
12.1 In accordance with Chapter 4 (Section 5) of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must keep to the right of
the solid white line at the pit exit when leaving the pits. No part of any car leaving the pits may cross
this line.
12.2 For safety reasons drivers must keep to the right of the bollard at the pit entry when they are entering
the pits.
12.3 Except in the cases of force majeure (accepted as such by the Stewards), the crossing by any part
of the car, in any direction, of the white painted area, between the pit entry and the track, by a driver
who, in the opinion of the Stewards, had committed to entering the pit lane is prohibited.
13) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 11, 12
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 17, 1, 2
14) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges.
Track Limits Turns 1 & 2
a) Any driver going with the 4 wheels to the left of the LHS track limiting white line, at T1 and T2,
may only rejoin the track at T3 on the following conditions:
1) The car passes on the left-hand side of the 2 bollards at the entry of T3.
2) The car rejoins the track in a safe way.
3) The car does not gain a lasting advantage.
Track Limits Turns 13, 14 and 15
b) On the above-mentioned turns, during Qualifying and the Race, any lap done beyond track
limits, may entail the loss of the relevant lap as well as the immediately following lap.
15) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences.
3
16) Stopping a car on track
Drivers should do their best to stop near an opening as referred in point 17 bellow, without
endangering others.
Should a car stop on the track during a session, it is recommended that the driver keeps all their
protective clothing (Helmet, Gloves, etc) on until they have returned to their garage.
17) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
18) Removing cars from the grid
Through the gates in the pit wall adjacent to the starting grid besides positions 2 and 17.
19) Race Suspension
In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane of the pits in front of the pit exit
lights.
20) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
21) Changes to the Circuit
21.1 New Pit Wall debris fencing.
21.2 New extended run off at T4.
21.3 New Garage doors.
21.4 Start light gantry is higher.
21.5 New internal kerb at T3.
21.6 Astroturf removed from Turns 14 and 15.
21.7 Apex combination element at T14 was removed. A bollard will be placed in the inner apex.
22) Any other business
A Disaster Recovery Network drill will be carried out at the end of FP1 on Friday from 14:50 to
approximately 14:57. Your cooperation and subsequent feedback will be most valued.
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
4