2022 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
21 - 24 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 40
To The Stewards Date 23 April 2022
Time 21:15
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the second free practice session:
The floor of car number 10 was digitally scanned and the scanned data were compared with the
team declared CAD drawings. Further the team declared CAD drawings were also compared with
previously submitted versions and checked for compliance with the 2022 Formula One Technical
Regulations.
During the second free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P2 were checked.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The fuel flow meter calibration checksum was checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
The plenum temperature of all cars was checked.
The IVT code and calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars.
Torque sensor software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
Torque sensor calibration checks have been carried out on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash board display configuration was not changed.
After the second free practice session:
A fuel sample was taken from car number 14.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 14.
Before the Sprint:
On the grid the temperature of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked on car numbers
44, 01, 11, 16, 04, 22, 18, 23 and 20.
On the grid the minimum tyre starting pressure of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked
on all cars.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 06.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 06.
After the Sprint:
The following cars were weighed:
Number Car Driver
63 Mercedes George Russell
44 Mercedes Lewis Hamilton
01 Red Bull Racing RBPT Max Verstappen
11 Red Bull Racing RBPT Sergio Perez
16 Ferrari Charles Leclerc
55 Ferrari Carlos Sainz
03 McLaren Mercedes Daniel Ricciardo
04 McLaren Mercedes Lando Norris
14 Alpine Renault Fernando Alonso
31 Alpine Renault Esteban Ocon
10 AlphaTauri RBPT Pierre Gasly
22 AlphaTauri RBPT Yuki Tsunoda
18 Aston Martin Mercedes Lance Stroll
05 Aston Martin Mercedes Sebastian Vettel
23 Williams Mercedes Alexander Albon
06 Williams Mercedes Nicholas Latifi
77 Alfa Romeo Racing Ferrari Valtteri Bottas
20 Haas Ferrari Kevin Magnussen
47 Haas Ferrari Mick Schumacher
The following aerodynamic component or bodywork areas were checked on car numbers 01, 55, 04
and 77:
- Floor Body - TR Article 3.5.1
- Floor Fences - TR Article 3.5.2
- Floor Edge Wing - TR Article 3.5.3
- Bib - TR Article 3.5.4
The chassis identification transponders have been confirmed for car numbers 63, 44, 01, 11, 16,
55, 03, 04, 14, 31, 10, 22, 18, 05, 23, 06, 77, 20 and 47.
The minimum distance between the adjacent rear wing sections at any longitudinal vertical plane was
checked on car numbers 63, 44, 01, 11, 16, 55, 03, 04, 14, 31, 10, 22, 18, 05, 23, 06, 77, 20 and
47.
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The oil consumption was checked on all cars.
The plenum temperature was checked on all cars.
The IVT code and calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the qualifying sessions.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The brake temperature warnings were checked on all cars.
The steering wheel of all cars has been checked.
The race start data of all cars have been checked.
Single clutch paddle use for the race start has been checked on all cars.
It was checked that no car exceeded 80 km/h when leaving the formation grid prior to the start of the
race.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash display configuration was not changed during Parc
Fermé.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the qualifying session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the qualifying session was checked on
all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars were checked.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 04.
All the fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 04.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2022 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate