2022 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
20 - 23 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 60
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 October 2022
Time 20:41
Title Decision - Haas Protest - Car 11
Description Decision - Haas Protest - Car 11
Enclosed USA DOC 60 - Haas Protest against Car 11.pdf
Garry Connelly Silvia Bellot
Enrique Bernoldi Dennis Dean
The Stewards
2022 U S G P
NITED TATES RAND RIX
20 – 23 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 60
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 October 2022
Time 20:40
Protest lodged by Haas F1 Team against Car number 11, driven by Sergio Perez of
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Stewards’ Decision:
The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
Procedure
1. On October 23, 2022 following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the US Grand Prix,
Haas F1 Team lodged a protest against Car 11 entered by Oracle Red Bull Racing, alleging that
during the race the car was unsafe due to its front end plate moving then falling off, and that this was
in breach of the regulations.
2. The Stewards first convened a hearing with Haas to determine the admissibility, or otherwise, of the
Protest.
3. Present at that Hearing were Team Principal Gunther Steiner and Ayao Komatsu Director of
Engineering.
Admissibility
4. It was noted that the Protest was lodged 31 minutes out of time however the Stewards, exercising
their power under Article 13.3.5 of the International Sporting Code, determined that the compliance
with the deadline was not possible in this case and that the Protest was admissible.
Hearing
5. Present at the Hearing were;
On behalf of Haas; Gunther Steiner, Ayao Komatsu and Peter Crolla.
On behalf of Red Bull; Jonathan Wheatley and Paul Monaghan.
On behalf of the FIA; Nikolas Tombazis, Jo Bauer and Niels Wittich.
6. The Haas representatives asserted that the car was unsafe and noted that their car(s) had been
given the black and orange flag on three occasions this year for similar situations.
7. Mr Bauer explained that after the end plate had fallen off, Red Bull had contacted him and sent him
detailed photos of the front wing. Mr Bauer determined that the car was not in an unsafe condition.
8. Mr Tombazis agreed that the car was not unsafe.
Conclusions of the Stewards
9. Having considered the evidence provided, the Stewards determine that the Protest is dismissed and
the Protest Fee is forfeited.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and
Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Silvia Bellot
Enrique Bernoldi Dennis Dean
The Stewards