2022 MONACO GRAND PRIX
26 - 29 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Press Delegate Document 51
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 May 2022
Time 13:20
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed MON DOC 50 - Post-Race Procedure.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Press Delegate
2022 M G P
ONACO RAND RIX
26 – 29 May 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 50
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 May 2022
Time 13:20
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2022 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to stay on the track and drive to
the start/finish straight where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 in front of the
Podium.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media
Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the
designated area. All other approved photographers must remain outside of the designated area for
the duration of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) The post-race interviews will take place in the designated area, and the interviewer will be selected
by the Commercial Rights Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
1
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) The Podium Celebrations will then take place.
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
via shuttlebus to the TV pen, located adjacent to the Formula 1 Hospitality unit in the paddock where
they may be accompanied by their press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Media Centre building.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen immediately after they have been
weighed in the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until
after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
muidoP
xirP
dnarG
ocanoM
2202
ediskcarT
muidoP
ediskcarT
srehpargotohP
srehpargotohP
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
dr3
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
ts1
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
FR
VT
dn2
namaremaC
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
gninniW
rotcurtsnoC
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
ytiruceS
llaW
tiP
llaW
tiP
devorppA
srehpargotohP
2202
yaM
72–
1
noisreV