2022 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 March 2022
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 43
To The Stewards Date 20 March 2022
Time 22:16
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the race:
The following part has been replaced today after 15:55 and before the start of the race:
Red Bull Racing RBPT:
Car 11: Floor screw
The floor of car number 04 was digitally scanned and the scanned data were compared with the
team declared CAD drawings. Further the team declared CAD drawings were also compared with
previously submitted versions and checked for compliance with the 2022 Formula One Technical
Regulations.
The uppermost rear wing element adjustable positions were checked on car numbers 77 and 20.
A symmetric and assymetric front wing deflection test was carried out on car numbers 01, 16 and
77.
A front wing flap deflection test was carried out on car numbers 01, 16 and 77.
A fuel sample was taken from car numbers 55, 04 and 20 and analysed during the race.
An engine oil sample was taken from car numbers 55 and 20.
On the grid it was checked that all cars had fitted their tyres when the “5-Minutes” signal was given.
On the grid the temperature of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked on car numbers
63, 44, 01, 11, 16, 55, 03, 04, 14, 31, 10, 22, 18, 27, 23, 06, 77 and 24.
On the grid the minimum tyre starting pressure of the LHS and RHS front and rear tyre was checked
on all cars.
After the race:
The following cars were weighed:
Number Car Driver
63 Mercedes George Russell
44 Mercedes Lewis Hamilton
01 Red Bull Racing RBPT Max Verstappen
11 Red Bull Racing RBPT Sergio Perez
16 Ferrari Charles Leclerc
55 Ferrari Carlos Sainz
03 McLaren Mercedes Daniel Ricciardo
04 McLaren Mercedes Lando Norris
14 Alpine Renault Fernando Alonso
31 Alpine Renault Esteban Ocon
22 AlphaTauri RBPT Yuki Tsunoda
18 Aston Martin Mercedes Lance Stroll
27 Aston Martin Mercedes Nico Hülkenberg
23 Williams Mercedes Alexander Albon
06 Williams Mercedes Nicholas Latifi
77 Alfa Romeo Racing Ferrari Valtteri Bottas
24 Alfa Romeo Racing Ferrari Zhou Guanyu
20 Haas Ferrari Kevin Magnussen
47 Haas Ferrari Mick Schumacher
The steering wheel of all classified cars has been checked.
The following aerodynamic component or bodywork areas were checked on car numbers 16 and 20:
- Floor Body - TR Article 3.5.1
- Floor Fences - TR Article 3.5.2
- Floor Edge Wing - TR Article 3.5.3
- Bib - TR Article 3.5.4
- Plank Assembly - TR Article 3.5.9
The engine high rev limit bands were checked on all cars.
The oil consumption was checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The session type has been confirmed for all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars taking part in the race.
Torque sensor software version checks have been carried out on all cars.
Torque sensor calibration checks have been carried out on all cars.
The torque coordinator demands were checked on all cars.
The torque control was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The brake temperature warnings were checked on all cars.
The race start data of all cars have been checked.
Single clutch paddle use for the race start has been checked on all cars.
It was checked that no car exceeded 80 km/h when leaving the formation grid prior to the start of the
race.
It was verified on all cars that the PCU dash display configuration was not changed during Parc
Fermé.
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during the race were checked.
The tyres used by all drivers during the race today have been checked.
The fuel pressure of all cars during the race was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the race was checked on all cars.
Fuel flow meter calibration checksums were checked on all cars.
The instantaneous fuel mass flow of all cars was checked.
The fuel temperature of all cars was checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 24.
The fuel samples have been checked for density and analysed by gas chromatography.
The results of all the fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been
approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 24.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
All car weights and the items checked were found to be in conformity with the 2022 FIA Formula One
Technical Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate