2022 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
9 - 12 June 2022
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 11 June 2022
Haas F1 Team
Time 21:07
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 24) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 47 - Mick Schumacher
Competitor Haas F1 Team
Time 18:15
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 47 did not leave the end of the pit lane in the order in which it arrived in the fast
lane.
Offence Alleged breach of Article 34.8 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 47 (Mick Schumacher), and the team
representative, and examined video and radio calls. The team manager of Car 47
explained that the team prepared the cars for the session in the normal manner and
timeframe but that other cars lined up very early for the start of that session.
The Stewards accept that the positioning of the pit garage for the team made it
impossible in the circumstances for either team car to line up in order in the fast lane,
in view of number of cars that were already there. It is noted that both cars departed
in a safe manner, and further that it would have been extremely difficult, if not
impossible, for the team to determine which order the cars should depart, leaving the
only option as starting behind all other cars. This effectively means that teams
allocated pits at the exit of the pit lane will always have to exit last unless they choose
to leave their garage significantly earlier.
The Stewards recommend that this particular regulation be examined, as this case is
almost identical to that involving Williams Racing in Mexico 2021, where no further
action was taken.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Matteo Perini
Mika Salo Danil Solomin
The Stewards