2022 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX
25 - 28 August 2022
From The Stewards Document 46
To The Team Manager, Date 27 August 2022
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 14:10
The Stewards have considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 13:00
Session Practice 3
Fact Car 16 accumulated 20 grid place penalties under Article 28.3 of the FIA Formula
One Sporting Regulations.
Offence Accumulated more than 15 grid place penalties under Article 28.3 of the FIA Formula
One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Required to start the race from the back of the starting grid.
Reason As car 16 has accumulated 20 grid place penalties (Documents 14 and 31) for this
competition under Article 28.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, this is in
excess of the fifteen permitted under the Regulation and therefore the car will be
required to start the race from the back of the starting grid, which will be handled in
accordance with Article 42.
The Stewards consider this to be the logical conclusion reading Article 28.3.
However, it is possible to interpret it differently. The third paragraph of Article 28.3
states that “If a driver incurs a penalty exceeding fifteen (15) grid places he will be
required to start the race from the back of the starting grid”. The Stewards published
a decision (Document 14) which imposed a fifteen grid penalty. The competitor
subsequently changed the Control Electronics and the Stewards published a separate
decision (Document 31) imposing a five grid place penalty.
This exact situation has not happened since this rule was put in place in 2018. The
wording of the sentence is singular “a penalty” and neither document imposed more
than 15 grid places. So it could be interpreted that this does not trigger a “back of
grid” penalty.
However, the first paragraph of the regulation states that “Penalties will be applied
according the following table and will be cumulative” [in each Competition]. The
Stewards further note that in fact, Document 14 combines two separate penalties (a
ten place and a five place) and is therefore two separate penalties in a single
document. So logically regardless of how many documents the penalties are
published in, all decisions accumulate over the Competition, and anything over the 15
grid place limit triggers the back of the grid penalty. Finally, there are other instances
in the regulations where penalties accumulate over time (such as penalty points)
which accumulate until they trigger a separate decision provided for in the regulations.
This is similar.
It is important to note that the “start the race from the back of the starting grid” penalty
is fully embedded in Article 28 (Power Unit Usage), was specifically introduced in
response to nonsensically high grid penalties from PU changes, and has never been
used to accumulate grid penalties imposed from other articles of the Regulations. It
should be read holistically as part of Article 28.3 and does not refer to other articles.
This explanation is provided as this is first time this situation has occurred and this is
a precedent.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Tim Mayer Matteo Perini
Enrique Bernoldi Yves Bacquelaine
The Stewards