2022 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
16 - 19 June 2022
From The Stewards Document 58
To The Team Manager, Date 18 June 2022
Scuderia Ferrari
Time 20:56
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 48, 49 & 50)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter, and
determine the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari
Time 16:03
Session Qualifying
Fact Driving unnecessarily slowly.
Offence Alleged breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the driver of car 23
(Alexander Albon), the driver of car 16 (Charles Leclerc) and team representatives
and reviewed video evidence.
At the start of Qualifying 1 car 16 slowed on the approach to turn 13 to create a gap
to start a fast lap. The driver says that he had to slow significantly behind other cars,
who were also doing the same, in order to create a safe gap due to the very poor
visibility caused by the weather conditions. Further, he says that it would have been
unsafe to try to overtake the other cars in front as they would not have been
expecting such a manoeuvre at this point. When the driver was informed by his team
that car 77 (Bottas) was approaching very quickly on a fast lap, he slowed even
further and stayed off-line to the right before the entry to turn 13 to ensure he did not
impede car 77. The Stewards accept that Leclerc did everything possible at that point
to avoid impeding Bottas. However, they consider the situation to have been
potentially dangerous but, given that many drivers ended up queueing at this part of
the circuit, they determine that too many drivers contributed to the situation and
therefore the driver concerned is not fully to blame.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Richard Norbury
Emanuele Pirro Marcel Demers
The Stewards