2022 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
08 - 11 September 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 4
To All Teams, All Officials Date 08 September 2022
Time 12:05
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed ITA DOC 4 - Event Notes.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 I G P
TALIAN RAND RIX
08 – 11 September 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 4
To All Officials, All Teams Date 08 September 2022
Time 12:05
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) Laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the second free practice session.
5) Article 55.14
(…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede
the restart.(…)
1
6) Parc Fermé Cameras
The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
7) Lapping during the race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
8) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1 b), this Event is an Open Event.
9) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 7 – 2022-08-04.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
10) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than three (3) metres from the garages.
Please ensure that your Pit Stop gantry arms are moved back towards the Garage during all Support
Race Activity.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
2
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
11) Positioning of the car on track during Free Practices and Qualifying
To help mitigate any differences in speed, cars on out or slow laps are requested to stay offline
where possible between Turn 10 and Turn 11.
12) Practice starts
12.1 During each Free Practice session, practice starts may be only carried out on the RHS after the end
of the Pit Wall but before the first dotted white line across the pit exit.
12.2 During the time the pit exit is open for the race, practice starts may be carried out after the end of
the pit wall but before the second dotted white line across the pit exit.
12.3 During this time any driver passing a car which has stopped to carry out a practice start may cross
the white line that is referred to in 13.1 below.
12.4 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
12.5 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, at any time the pit exit is open, and practice starts are
permitted to be carried out, any driver who wishes to perform a practice start must form up in a line
and leave in the order they got there unless another car is unduly delayed.
12.6 Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each free practice session. Any car on
the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of entering
the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
12.7 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
12.8 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
13) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
13.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 5 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
13.2 For safety reasons, the line that is considered to be at pit exit, includes the line painted on the track
at pit exit and continuing after SC2 line.
14) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 1, 2 ,3
3
15) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges. During
Qualifying and the Race, each time a driver fails to negotiate with the track limits, this will result in
that lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.
15.1 Turn 1-2
Four rows of polystyrene blocks have been placed in the escape road at the first chicane. In order
to ensure the cars are able to re-join the track safely any driver using the escape road must go
around the end of each of these rows and re-join the track at the end of the escape road. Drivers
may only use the grass if it is clearly unavoidable.
15.2 Turn 5
Any driver going straight and who misses the corner before the apex kerb of second chicane must
stay to the right of the yellow line and the bollard, he may re-join the track at the far end of the asphalt
run-off area after the exit of Turn 5.
16) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris fences and
barriers.
17) Places where drivers may leave the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on barriers.
Should a car stop on the track during a session, it is recommended that the driver keeps all their
protective clothing (Helmet, Gloves, etc) on until they have returned to their garage.
18) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
19) Removing cars from the grid
Through the gate in the pit wall adjacent to grid position 6 and the Pit Lane Exit.
20) Race Suspension
In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane of the pits in front of the pit exit
lights.
21) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
22) Guest access to the grid
For the start of the race and after the end of the race, teams are responsible to ensure that guests
do not cross the teams’ garages and access the pit lane before all cars are on the grid or have
reached Parc Fermé.
4
23) Changes to the circuit
23.1 Turn 1 – Turn 2: Track has been resurfaced.
23.2 Turn 4 – Turn 5: Track has been resurfaced.
23.3 Turn 8 – Turn 10: Track has been resurfaced.
23.4 Turn 8 – Turn 10: The verge on RHS has been reduced to 2.0 metres.
23.5 Turn 11: Starting from the apex, the asphalt run-off has been reduced to 2.0 metres.
23.6 Turn 4 – Turn 5: All rubber kerbs have been removed.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5