2022 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 March 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 22
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 March 2022
Time 13:30
Title Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Description Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Enclosed BRN DOC 22 - Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures .pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
18 – 20 March 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 22
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 March 2022
Time 13:30
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed in the Pit Lane
in front of the FIA Garages once they have got out of their cars.
Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for
your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should proceed directly to
the Pit Lane where the 1, 2, 3 boards which will be located at the pit lane entry in front of the Race
Control Tower.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and up to four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the
FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place in this designated
area. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If one (1) of the top three (3) drivers is already in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should
ensure that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the pole position driver will be led to the backdrop in front of the FIA
Garages for the Pirelli Pole Position Award photo opportunity.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will go to the TV pen, located at the
pit entry end of the paddock and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should wait to
collect their drivers at the back of the press conference room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate to Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session after they have
been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated.
• Any Driver classified from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised
after Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once
their TV interviews have concluded.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Niels Wittich
FIA Formula One Race Director
1/2
2022 Bahrain Grand Prix
Parc Ferme - Qualifying
Podium
2nd
Fireman
Remaining finishers
1st
parked here
TV RF 3rd
Cameraman
Fence
Pit Wall Pit Wall
Version 1 –18 March 2022
Fence
Photographers
Waiting Area
FIA F1
Backdrop Backdrop
Approved
Photographers