2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 - 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 65
To All Teams, All Officials Date 10 April 2022
Time 12:40
Title Race Director's Note - Post-Race Procedures
Description Race Director's Note - Post-Race Procedures
Enclosed AUS DOC 65 - Race Director's Note - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 A G P
USTRALIAN RAND RIX
7 – 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 65
To All Teams, All Officials Date 10 April 2022
Time 12:40
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2022 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to Pit Lane where they
will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 at the Pit Exit end of the Pit Lane. The board for
the winning driver will be directly underneath the podium, the boards for positions 2 and 3 will be
located in the pit lane just beyond the Podium.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media
Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the
designated area. All other approved photographers must remain outside of the designated area for
the duration of the Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three Drivers will be weighed by the FIA near their cars. Each Driver
must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) After the Drivers have been weighed, the post-race interviews will take place in this designated area,
and the interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be escorted to the cool down area, where
water and towels will be available.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the permanent Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias
will be located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
1/3
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) The Podium Celebrations will then take place.
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located at the pit entry end of the paddock where they may be accompanied by their
press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen immediately after they have been
weighed in the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until
after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retired during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they
do not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come
back into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2/3
pordkcaB
1F
ts1
dn2
FR
VT
dr3
namaremaC
nameriF
srehsinif
gniniameR
egaraG
AIF
ta
dekrap
2202
lirpA
8
1
noisreV
e
c
n
e
F
muidoP
ytiruceS ytiruceS ytiruceS ytiruceS
llaW
tiP
srehpargotohP
ecneF
B
A
llaW
tiP
ecneF
aera
gnitiaw
srehpargotohP
devorppA
epoR
xirP
dnarG
nailartsuA
2202
ecaR
-
emreF
craP
selacS