2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 - 10 April 2022
From The Stewards Document 76
To The Team Manager, Date 10 April 2022
Scuderia AlphaTauri
Time 18:33
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 68, 69 &
70) and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor Scuderia AlphaTauri
Time 15:44
Session Race
Fact Near collision behind the safety car.
Offence Alleged breach of Article 55.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 47 (Mick Schumacher), the driver of Car
10 (Pierre Gasly), the driver of Car 22 (Yuki Tsunoda) and team representatives and
examined video evidence.
Drivers were in line on the main straight behind the safety car with lights on. Cars
were accelerating and decelerating to keep tyre and brake temperatures up in
anticipation of the restart. GAS slowed in reaction to the car in front, TSU also slowed
in reaction. MSC was closer to TSU as he slowed, while trying to maintain the ten car
length maximum separation specified in the regulations, and had to move left and
overtake TSU while braking to avoid colliding with him. The Stewards find no driver
guilty of breaching the regulation, however, it is clear that the speed and braking
capabilities of F1 cars, especially while trying to maintain required temperatures in
tyres and brakes, are in tension with the ten car length separation behind the Safety
Car traditionally specified in the regulations. This needs to be a point of emphasis in
future driver briefings, to ensure the drivers collectively agree on how best to address
this challenge before an unfortunate incident occurs.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Dennis Dean
Enrique Bernoldi Matt Selley
The Stewards