2022 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
24 - 27 March 2022
From The Stewards Document 38
To The Team Manager, Date 27 March 2022
Haas F1 Team
Time 00:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 32, 33 &
34) and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 20 - Kevin Magnussen
Competitor Haas F1 Team
Time 20:17
Session Qualifying
Fact Unsafe release of car 20.
Offence Alleged Breach of Article 34.14 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 20 (Kevin Magnussen), the driver of Car
23 (Alexander Albon), the driver of Car 3 (Daniel Ricciardo) and team
representatives, and examined video, team radio evidence and found that the release
from the garage did require Car 23 to take evasive action.
However, all three drivers and their team representatives were unanimous in their
view that the situation was benign and did not create an unsafe situation/release.
Car 20 stated that their garage had a pillar that made it particularly difficult to exit fast
and therefore there was a lag between the instruction to exit and the move out of the
garage.
Although Car 23 turned to the left to avoid Car 20, both cars were moving slowly and
were at no point in danger. Nor were any team personnel placed in a position of
danger.
In the circumstances, we considered that the release itself was untidy and could
potentially have resulted in an unsafe condition it did not in fact do so. As a result, we
decided to take no further action.
We nevertheless impressed upon the team that it was crucial that the safety of the
drivers and the team personnel in the pit lane be considered when releasing cars
from the garage and to therefore be extra vigilant when doing so – not least if a
garage was impaired as alleged by the team.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Nish Shetty Matteo Perini
Enrique Bernoldi Hassan AlAbdali
The Stewards