2022 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
29 September - 02 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 39
To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Date 01 October 2022
Time 23:23
Title Offence - Mercedes - Inaccurate Scrutineering Form
Description Offence - Mercedes - Inaccurate Scrutineering Form
Enclosed SGP DOC 39 - Offence - Mercedes Scrutineering Declaration.pdf
Gerd Ennser Matt Selley
Derek Warwick Nish Shetty
The Stewards
2022 S G P
INGAPORE RAND RIX
29 September – 02 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 39
To The Team Manager, Date 01 October 2022
Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 23:23
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (Document 36) and heard
from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 44 – Lewis Hamilton
Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team
Fact Inaccurate Self Scrutineering Form.
Offence Breach of Appendix L, Chapter III of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team) is fined €25,000
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative.
As required by Article 31.1 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, prior to P1 the
team submitted a self-scrutiny form for Car 44 by which they declared that the driver
complied with the requirement not to wear jewellery in the form of body piercing. That
declaration was incorrect in the case of HAM who had a nose piercing which he had not
removed.
The Team Manager explained that the team was unaware that HAM had a piercing. In
recent events HAM had removed the piercing prior to the competition. The team
assumed, without enquiring of HAM, that he had followed or would follow the same
procedure for this event.
The Stewards accept that the error in the declaration in this case was not intentional or
deliberate but it would not have occurred had the team made an enquiry of HAM before
completing and submitting the declaration.
Given these circumstances, we fine the team € 25,000.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Matt Selley
Derek Warwick Nish Shetty
The Stewards