2022 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX
20 - 23 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 61
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 October 2022
Time 20:53
Title Decision - Haas Protest - Car 14
Description Decision - Haas Protest - Car 14
Enclosed USA DOC 61 - Haas Protest against Car 14.pdf
Garry Connelly Silvia Bellot
Enrique Bernoldi Dennis Dean
The Stewards
2022 U S G P
NITED TATES RAND RIX
20 – 23 October 2022
From The Stewards Document 61
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 October 2022
Time 20:53
Protest lodged by Haas F1 Team against Car number 14, driven by Fernando Alonso of
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Stewards’ Decision:
The Protest is founded.
Procedure
1. On October 23, 2022 following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the US Grand Prix,
Haas F1 Team lodged a protest against Car 14 entered by BWT Alpine F1 Team, alleging that during
the race the car was unsafe due to its right hand mirror moving then falling off, and that this was in
breach of the regulations.
2. The Stewards first convened a hearing with Haas to determine the admissibility, or otherwise, of the
Protest.
3. Present at that Hearing were Team Principal Gunther Steiner and Ayao Komatsu Director of
Engineering.
Admissibility
4. It was noted that the Protest was lodged 24 minutes out of time however the Stewards, exercising
their power under Article 13.3.5 of the International Sporting Code, determined that the compliance
with the deadline was not possible in this case and that the Protest was admissible.
Hearing
5. Present at the Hearing were;
On behalf of Haas; Gunther Steiner and Ayao Komatsu.
On behalf of BWT Alpine; Alan Permane.
On behalf of the FIA; Nikolas Tombazis, Jo Bauer and Niels Wittich.
6. The Haas representatives asserted that the car was unsafe and noted that their car(s) had been
given the black and orange flag on three occasions this year for situations involving their car being
in an unsafe condition.
7. Mr Steiner explained that Mr Peter Crolla had contacted Race Control to report the issue with Car
14 on 2 occasions during the race and was told that the matter was being looked into.
8. Mr Permane submitted that the mirror came off through no fault of their driver or team and was due
to the collision caused by the driver of Car 18. He also submitted that at only one time during the
race after the mirror fell off, was there a car behind Car 14 and that the race engineer was warning
the driver of the gap to that car. Further, that there was a precedence in Suzuka in 2019 where the
cars of Lewis Hamilton and Charles Leclerc were allowed to continue with mirror problems.
9. The evidence shows that Car 14 was driven firstly with the mirror flapping for a significant number
of laps, then with no mirror after it fell off.
10. Mr Bauer submitted that a flapping mirror was dangerous and it could come loose and hit another
driver causing injury. Therefore this was unsafe.
11. Mr Bauer further stated that a car needs to have two mirrors and that in his opinion, which the
Stewards accept as expert opinion, the car was unsafe to be driven with a mirror missing.
12. Mr Tombazis agreed that the car was not safe in that condition.
Conclusions of the Stewards
13. The Stewards are deeply concerned that Car 14 was not given the black and orange flag, or at least
a radio call to rectify the situation, despite the two calls to Race Control by the Haas Team
14. Notwithstanding the above, Article 3.2 of the Formula 1 Sporting Regulations is clear – a car must
be in a safe condition throughout a race, and in this case, Car 14 was not. This is a responsibility of
the Alpine Team.
15. The Stewards do not regard the Suzuka incidents from 2019 as “precedents”.
16. Having considered the evidence provided, the Stewards determine that the Protest is upheld and
the Protest Fee is returned.
17. The Stewards determine to impose a 10 second Stop and Go penalty (30 second time penalty
applied after the race) to Car 14.
18. No penalty points are issued as this is a team matter.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and
Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Garry Connelly Silvia Bellot
Enrique Bernoldi Dennis Dean
The Stewards