2022 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX
29 September - 02 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 4
To All Teams, All Officials Date 29 September 2022
Time 21:55
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed SGP DOC 4 - Event Notes.pdf
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 S G P
INGAPORE RAND RIX
29 September – 02 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 4
To All Officials, All Teams Date 29 September 2022
Time 21:55
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Track light panels
The FIA track light panels have been installed in the positions shown on the circuit map. In
accordance with Appendix H to the ISC the light signals have the same meaning as flag signals.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during Free Practice and Qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) Laps during Qualifying and Reconnaissance laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of Qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the Race, drivers must
stay below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane
map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the second Free Practice session.
5) Article 55.14
(…) In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the
point at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or impede
1
the restart.(…)
6) Parc Fermé Cameras
The Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and operational at all times during the Event.
7) Lapping during the Race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
The system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the car about to be
lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he is soon going to be
lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority. When the faster car
is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will be shown to the slower car (in addition to
blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing monitors) and the driver must allow
the following driver to overtake at the first available opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is ensure consistent application of the rules, additional
instructions may also be given by Race Control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
8) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1 b), this Event is an Open Event.
9) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 7 – 2022-08-04.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
10) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all Support category Practice sessions and Races: No
more than one metre from the red line below the pit garage front shutter.
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all Support
Race Activity.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into pit lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
2
opening of pit exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than 15
minutes prior to the opening of pit exit for their respective sessions.
11) Positioning of the car on track during Free Practices and Qualifying
To help mitigate any differences in speed, cars on out or slow laps are requested to stay offline
where possible between Turn 19 and Turn 22.
12) Pit Lane Speed
As foreseen in Article 34.7 form the 2022 Formula One Sporting Regulations the pit lane speed is
amended to 60km/h for the duration of the competition.
13) Practice starts
13.1 During each Free Practice session, practice starts may be only carried out on the LHS after the pit
exit lights. Drivers must pull as far left as possible.
13.2 During the time the pit exit is open for the Race, practice starts may be carried out no further forward
than the dashed white line across the pit exit. Drivers wishing to carry out a start should stop on the
left in order to allow other cars to pass on their right.
13.3 During this time any driver passing a car which has stopped to carry out a practice start may cross
momentarily the longitudinal white line on his RHS.
13.4 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
13.5 Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each Free Practice session. Any car on
the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of entering
the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
13.6 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
13.7 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
14) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
14.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 5 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
14.2 The dotted white line at pit entry is the track edge.
14.3 For safety reasons when driving in the first part of the pit lane, prior to the first team garage, drivers
must keep to the right of the two bollards separating the fast lane and inner lane.
15) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 4, 5, & 6
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 11 & 12
c) DRS Activation 3: 18, 1 & 2
3
16) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges. During
Qualifying and the Race, each time a driver fails to negotiate with the track limits, this will result in
that lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.
16.1 Turn 1-2-3
16.2 Any driver who fails to negotiate Turn 2 by using the track, and who passes completely to the right
of the orange kerb/line element, must keep to the right of the red and white polystyrene block, and
re-join the track on the outside of Turn 3.
16.3 The above requirements will not automatically apply to any driver who is judged to have been forced
off the track, each such case will be judged individually.
16.4 In all cases detailed above, the driver must only re-join the track when it is safe to do so and without
gaining a lasting advantage
17) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red “F” attached to the debris fences and barriers.
18) Places where drivers may leave the track
Indicated by green pictogram of a “running man” on a white background fixed to the debris fences.
Should a car stop on the track during a session, it is recommended that the driver keeps all their
protective clothing (Helmet, Gloves, etc) on until they have returned to their garage.
19) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
20) Removing cars from the grid
Through the gates in the pit wall adjacent to grid positions 1 and 12.
21) Race Suspension
In case of a race suspension, cars will be stopped in the fast lane of the pits in front of the pit exit
lights.
22) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
23) Guest access to the Grid
For the start of the Race and after the end of the Race, teams are responsible to ensure that guests
do not cross the teams’ garages and access the pit lane before all cars are on the grid or have
reached Parc Fermé.
4
24) Changes to the circuit
24.1 The pit straight has been resurfaced as well as the pit exit road all the way to SC Line 2.
24.2 From the exit of T5 to halfway between T6 and T7 the track has been resurfaced.
24.3 From the exit of T12 to the exit of T13 the track has been resurfaced.
24.4 Several patches were repaired on driver’s LHS from the exit of T12 to mid-way to T13
24.5 The approach to T13 and all the way to the exit of T13 has been resurfaced.
24.6 The approach to T14 and all the way to the entrance of T19 has been resurfaced
24.7 New rumble textured strips are to be tested at the exit of Turn 5. Drivers’ opinions and feedback will
be requested.
Eduardo Freitas
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5