2022 MEXICAN GRAND PRIX
27 - 30 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 29
To All Teams, All Officials Date 30 October 2022
Time 11:35
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed MEX DOC 29 - Post-Race Procedures .pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 M G P
EXICAN RAND RIX
27 – 30 October 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 29
To All Officials, All Teams Date 30 October 2022
Time 11:35
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to proceed directly to the exit of
Turn 13 where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room
behind the podium until the podium ceremony has concluded following the instructions given
to all teams by the Media Delegate). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the team-
embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area. All other
photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the Parc Fermé and
Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Mechanics for the teams in the top three (3) positions must be in position in the zone marked
‘Authorised Personnel’ on the attached map no later than two (2) laps before the end of the race.
(cid:120) Mechanics for teams who could potentially score a podium position must also be on standby in the
‘Authorised Personnel’ area should the positions change during the last two (2) laps.
(cid:120) Teams of the top three (3) finishing cars need to bring the necessary equipment should a car not to
be safe in this Parc Fermé location (orange or red ES status light) and also to be able to remove the
front wing / nose assembly.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations – “For the
duration of the Post Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race
in positions 1, 2, 3 must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened
to the waist.”
(cid:120) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed (e.g.:
Helmet, Gloves, etc.). Water will be available in the parc fermé area after the driver has been
weighed.
(cid:120) Once weighed, the Drivers will be called for their post-race interviews. The post-race interviews will
take place in the designated area, and the interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights
Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
1
(cid:120) For those finishing in 2nd and 3rd positions, the mechanics will be authorised to remove the cars from
the designated area as soon as the drivers have got out of their cars.
(cid:120) The car finishing in 1st position, under the supervision of the FIA Technical Delegate, must then be
pushed to the podium and onto the ramp which leads to the car elevator. A mechanic must sit in the
car to steer it during this procedure.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room underneath the podium structure.
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) When the Drivers are ready, an announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd
and 2nd placed Drivers introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen located at the Pit Entry end of the paddock, where they may be accompanied by their
press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor the Media Centre Building.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen after they have been weighed in
the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have
been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
M
P
1
4
M
P
1
3
a
M
P
1
2
b
M
P
1
3
sagracatnoM
CZ
50.0
2.400
30.0 60.0
1.830
RAELC PEEK RAELC PEEK 80.0