2022 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
16 - 19 June 2022
From The FIA Formula One Press Delegate Document 65
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 June 2022
Time 12:15
Title Post-Race Procedure
Description Post-Race Procedure
Enclosed CAN DOC 65 - Post-Race Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Press Delegate
2022 C G P
ANADIAN RAND RIX
16 – 19 June 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 65
To All Teams, All Officials Date 19 June 2022
Time 12:15
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST RACE INTERVIEW & PODIUM CEREMONY PROCEDURE
In addition to the provisions of the 2022 Formula 1 Sporting Regulations – Appendix 5 Podium Ceremony,
the Podium Ceremony procedure detailed below must be followed.
Post-Race Interview and Podium Ceremony Procedure:
(cid:120) The master of ceremonies will be appointed by the FIA to conduct and take responsibility for the
entire podium ceremony.
(cid:120) Drivers who finish the race in the top three positions will be required to return to the Pit Lane and
drive to the Pit Exit where they will find the boards showing positions from 1, 2, 3 under the Podium.
(cid:120) Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated
area at this time (no team PR personnel. Driver physios must wait outside the cool down room
until the podium ceremony has concluded). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate, the
team-embedded photographer of the winning driver may also be permitted in the designated area.
All other approved photographers must remain outside of the designated area for the duration of the
Parc Fermé and Podium procedure.
(cid:120) Competitors are reminded of Article 63.2 of the Sporting Regulations – “For the duration of the Post
Race Interviews and Podium Ceremony Procedure, the Drivers finishing in race in positions 1, 2, 3
must remain attired only in their Driving Suits, 'done up' to the neck, not opened to the waist.”
(cid:120) The post-race interviews will take place in the designated area, and the interviewer will be selected
by the Commercial Rights Holder.
(cid:120) Drivers must not interfere with Parc Fermé protocols in any way.
(cid:120) Once the interviews have been completed, the Drivers will be immediately escorted to the cool down
room where they will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must be fully attired while they are weighed
(e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Each Driver will be given their Pirelli Caps.
(cid:120) The drivers will then be escorted to the Podium area where the 1, 2, 3 Rostrum and Dias will be
located.
(cid:120) An announcement for the Podium Ceremony will take place with the 3rd and 2nd placed Drivers
introduced to move to their respective Podium Dias steps.
(cid:120) The Winning Driver will then be announced who will move to his position on the Podium.
(cid:120) The National Anthems will then take place and flags will be displayed.
(cid:120) Dignitaries will present the trophies on the podium as arranged by the Master of Ceremonies.
1
(cid:120) The Trophy Presentations will take place in the following order:
o Winning Driver (On the Podium)
o A representative of the Winning Constructor (On the Podium)
o 2nd Place Driver (On the Podium)
o 3rd Place Driver (On the Podium)
(cid:120) The Podium Celebrations will then take place.
(cid:120) Following the Podium Ceremony, the top three (3) drivers will be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate
to the TV pen, located at the pit entry end of the paddock between the Haas and AlphaTauri
hospitality units, where they may be accompanied by their press officers.
(cid:120) At the end of the TV pen, the top three (3) drivers will go to the FIA Press Conference, located on
the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
(cid:120) Drivers from 4th and beyond must proceed directly to the TV pen immediately after they have been
weighed in the Parc Fermé, located in the FIA garage. Each Driver must remain fully attired until
after they have been weighed (e.g.: Helmet, Gloves, etc.).
(cid:120) Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
the race must be available for interview at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
(cid:120) Drivers who retire during the race are required to go to the TV pen (and written media pen if they do
not have a session for the written media organised after the race) as soon as they have come back
into the paddock.
Please see the attached Post Race Podium Ceremony and Parc Fermé Diagram.
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–17
June
2022
Photographer’s
Security
Cameraman
garage
3
TV
RF
Security
rd
at
FIA
cars
parked
1
st
Remaining
2
nd
Podium
Grandstand
access
Photographer
2022
Canadian
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Race
Fence
Fence
and
pit
lane
only
Camera
platform
steps
Pit
Wall
Fence
F1
Backdrop