2022 FRENCH GRAND PRIX
21 - 24 July 2022
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 23 July 2022
McLaren F1 Team
Time 16:09
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 30 and 31)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter, and
determine the following:
No / Driver 4 - Lando Norris
Competitor McLaren F1 Team
Time 13:50
Session Practice 3
Fact Alleged Impeding of car 18 during a practice start.
Offence Alleged Breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 4 (Lando Norris), the driver of car 18
(Lance Stroll) and team representatives and examined video evidence.
NOR was stopped in the slow lane at Pit Exit preparing for a practice start from that
position as permitted by the Race Director’s Event Notes. STR was traversing the
fast lane approaching Pit Exit when NOR performed his practice start in the path of
STR. STR braked to avoid a collision with NOR. There was no contact between the
cars.
STR and NOR were in agreement that what occurred did not endanger STR. STR
could see NOR stopped preparing for a practice start and was prepared for the
possibility that STR might not see him approaching. Indeed, NOR explained that
because the area for practice starts is downhill, it is not possible for a driver in that
position to see a car approaching from behind in his mirrors.
There is no specific rule which dictates protocol for performing practice starts other
than that they can only be done from the position NOR was in at the time.
Nevertheless, the Stewards consider that a car performing a practice start must give
way to a car in the fast lane approaching Pit Exit in the interests of safety. Because in
this case both drivers were agreed that the practice start did not create a dangerous
situation in this case, the Stewards determined to take no action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Gerd Ennser Matt Selley
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean Marie Krempff
The Stewards