2022 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
7 - 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 39
To All Teams, All Officials Date 09 April 2022
Time 13:52
Title Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Description Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures
Enclosed AUS DOC 39 - Race Director's Note - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 A G P
USTRALIAN RAND RIX
7 – 10 April 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 39
To All Teams, All Officials Date 9 April 2022
Time 13:50
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying interview procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed on the Grid
once they have got out of their cars.
Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for
your co-operation in following the procedure below:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should stay on the track
and proceed directly to the Grid, where the 1, 2, 3 boards which will be located in the vicinity of Grid
Position 9.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this designated area
at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of the FIA Media Delegate,
the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be permitted in the designated
area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed in the designated area on the track by
the FIA. Each Driver must remain fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves,
etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the post-Qualifying interviews will take place in this designated
area on the track. The interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If one (1) of the top three (3) drivers is already in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should
ensure that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop underneath the podium for the
Top 3 and Pirelli Pole Position Award photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference
located on the first floor of the Pit Garage Complex.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen, located at
the pit entry end of the paddock and they may be accompanied by their press officers, who should wait
to collect their drivers at the back of the press conference room.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview session after they have
been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
1/2
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2/2
xirP
dnarG
nailartsuA
2202
gniyfilauQ
-
emreF
craP
B
A
aera
gnitiaw
srehpargotohP
devorppA
pordkcaB
AIF
muidoP
srac
gniniameR
egaraG
AIF
ta
dekrap
srehpargotohP
llaW
tiP
llaW
tiP
dr3
ts1
FR
VT
dn2
namaremaC
9
xoB
dirG
2202
lirpA
9
2
noisreV