2022 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 November 2022
From The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate Document 16
To The Stewards Date 18 November 2022
Time 20:00
Technical Delegate’s Report
Before the first free practice session:
The exhaust system components of all cars were checked against the declaration submitted by the
relevant team before the Event.
During the first free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P1 were checked.
After the first free practice session:
The fuel pressure of all cars during the first free practice session was checked.
The logged pressure within the engine cooling system during the first free practice session was
checked on all cars.
The IVT temperatures were checked on all cars.
The ES state of charge on-track limits were checked on all cars.
The lap energy release and recovery limits were checked on all cars.
The MGU-K power limits were checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K speed was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-K torque was checked on all cars.
The maximum MGU-H speed was checked on all cars.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 03.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 03.
During the second free practice session:
The tyre starting pressures of all cars during P2 were checked.
After the second free practice session:
Car number 24 was weighed.
The custom software versions were checked on all cars.
The SECU software versions were checked on all cars.
Chassis FIA checksum was checked on all cars.
The rear brakes pressure control was checked on all cars.
The tyres used by all drivers during the sessions today have been checked.
A fuel sample was taken from car number 47.
The results of fuel analyses show that the fuels were the same as ones, which had been approved
for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
Further the density change of the fuel samples taken today was within the permitted limits.
An engine oil sample was taken from car number 47.
The engine oil samples have been analysed by FTIR spectroscopy and viscometry.
The results of the FTIR analyses show that the sampled oils were consistent with reference engine
oil samples which had been approved for use by the relevant competitors prior to the Event.
All the above items were found to be in conformity with the 2022 FIA Formula One Technical
Regulations.
Jo Bauer
The FIA Formula One Technical Delegate