2022 BRAZILIAN GRAND PRIX
10 - 13 November 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 17
To All Teams, All Officials Date 11 November 2022
Time 14:00
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed BRA DOC 17 - Post-Qualifying Procedures.pdf
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2022 B G P
RAZILIAN RAND RIX
10 – 13 November 2022
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 17
To All Officials, All Teams Date 11 November 2022
Time 14:00
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed in the Pit Lane they
have got out of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying
we would like to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the 1, 2, 3 boards in front of the FIA Garages.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials and FIA pre-approved
television crews and the four (4) FIA approved photographers, no one else will be allowed in this
designated area at this time (no driver physios nor team PR personnel). At the sole discretion of
the FIA Media Delegate, the team-embedded photographer of the pole position driver may also be
permitted in the Parc Fermé area at this time.
(cid:120) Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place. The interviewer will
be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that he goes directly to the designated area once he is weighed, and the other drivers have arrived
there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop in front of the FIA Garages in the
Pit Lane for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award photo opportunities.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate to Q1 but are eligible to race must attend the TV interview session in the paddock behind
the FIA garages after they have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in
which they participated.
• The top three drivers must also attend the TV interview session after they have completed their parc
fermé interviews.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
1
Tom Wood
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2
Version
1
–11
November
2022
Pit
Wall
Cameraman
TV
RF
Fireman
Fence
2
nd
1
st
parked
along
fence
3
Remaining
finishers
rd
FIA
Backdrop 0
1
2022
Brazilian
Grand
Prix
Parc
Ferme
-
Qualifying