2022 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
24 - 27 March 2022
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 28
To All Teams, All Officials Date 26 March 2022
Time 14:55
Title Event Notes v2
Description Event Notes v2
Enclosed KSA DOC 28 - Event Notes V2.pdf
Niels Wittich
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2022 S A G P
AUDI RABIAN RAND RIX
24 – 27 March 2022
From FIA Formula One Race Director Document 28
To All Teams, All Officials Date 26 March 2022
Time 14:55
EVENT NOTES V2 (changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Track light panel displaying pit entry status
1.1 The light panels indicated on the pit lane map will display a flashing yellow arrow if cars are required
to use the pit lane once the Safety Car has been deployed during the race.
1.2 The light panels indicated on the pit lane map will display a flashing red cross if the pit lane is closed
at any point during the race.
2) Drivers leaving their pit stop position in the pit lane
2.1 For safety reasons, no car should be driven from its pit stop position at any time unless:
a) It has first been driven into the pit stop position having just entered the pit lane from the track,
and;
b) It is then driven immediately back onto the track from the pit stop position.
3) Observing yellow flags during free practice and qualifying
3.1 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must reduce
speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the stewards to be
satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be clear that he has not
attempted to set a meaningful lap time, for practical purposes any driver in a double yellow sector
will have that lap time deleted.
3.2 Single waved: Drivers should reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be expected
to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling sector.
4) In laps during qualifying and reconnaissance laps
4.1 In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the end
of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must stay
below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
You will be informed of the maximum time after the first day of practice.
5) Parc Fermé Cameras
5.1 To assist with the revised FIA Event procedures, the Parc Fermé cameras must be uncovered and
operational at all times during the Event.
6) Operational personnel curfew
6.1 Boards warning anyone attempting to enter the paddock that the curfew is in operation will be placed
immediately before the turnstiles at the appropriate times.
6.2 At this Event, Personnel will be permitted to enter the Paddock 30 minutes prior to the curfew to
assist social distancing. No work is permitted to be undertaken until the curfew has ended.
7) Tyre Blanket Usage during Pit Stops in the Race
7.1 For reasons of safety, tyre blankets are not permitted in the Pit Lane at any time during the race.
8) Lapping during the race
8.1 The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car about to lap him to allow the faster driver
past at the first available opportunity. The F1 Marshalling System has been developed in order to
ensure that the point at which a driver is shown blue flags is consistent, rather than trusting the ability
of marshals to identify situations that require blue flags.
As it was at the end of last season the system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car
is within 3.0s of the car about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn
their driver he is soon going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be
considered a priority. When the faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue flags will
be shown to the slower car (in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the
timing monitors) and the driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available
opportunity.
It should be noted that the aim of using F1MS is to ensure consistent application of the rules,
additional instructions may also be given by race control when necessary.
Event Specific Instructions
9) Formula 1 Sporting Regulations Article 23.1
9.1 In accordance with the provisions of Article 23.1b), this Event is an Open Event.
10) Changes to the circuit
Turn 2-3: The left hand side barriers have been moved back to improve visibility from Turn 2 to
Turn 4
Turn 4 Apex: A smooth face has been added to the concrete barriers
Turn 14 Apex: The barriers have been moved back approximately 1.5m to improve visibility
Turn 16 Apex: A smooth face has been added to the concrete barriers
Turn 21 Apex: The barriers have been moved back approximately 1.5m to improve visibility
Turn 22 Apex: A smooth face has been added to the concrete barriers
Turn 24 Apex: A smooth face has been added to the concrete barriers
Exit of Turn 27: The track has been widened to 12m
11) Specific Technical Procedures
11.1 Please note that from 2022 the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the
relevant and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of
this Index file (“2022 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 5 – 2022-03-16.xlsx”) and all relevant documents can
be found on the FIA SFTP site.
12) Support Races
12.1 Team Barrier placement
a) Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races:
No more than two (2) meters from the garages.
b) Please ensure that your Pit Stop gantry arms are moved back towards the Garage during all
Support Race Activity.
c) It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in pit
lane.
12.2 Support Category Movements
a) Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to
the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
b) Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier
than 15 minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
13) Practice starts
13.1 Practice starts may be carried out on the asphalt on the left-hand side of the fast lane immediately
after the pit exit line and, for the avoidance of doubt, this includes any time the pit exit is open for the
race.
13.2 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
13.3 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, at any time the pit exit is open and when practice starts
are permitted to be carried out, any car who wishes to perform a practice start must form up in a line
and leave in the order they got there unless another car is unduly delayed.
13.4 Additionally, Practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each free practice session.
Any car on the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead
of entering the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
13.5 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
13.6 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
14) DRS
14.1 DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zone and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) Zone 1: Panels 12, 13, 14
b) Zone 2: Panels 16, 17, 18, 19
c) Zone 3: Panels 20, 21, 1, 2
15) Driving Unnecessarily Slowly
15.1 Due to the nature of this track, drivers are reminded of the provisions of Article 33.4 of the Sporting
Regulations.
15.2 Any driver intending to create a gap in front of him in order to get a clear lap should not attempt to
do this around Turn 23 through to Turn 25. Any driver seen to have done this will be reported to the
stewards as being in breach of Article 33.4 of the Sporting Regulations.
16) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
16.1 In accordance with Chapter 4 (Section 5) of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must keep to the left of
the solid white line at and immediately after the Pit Exit when leaving the pits.
16.2 For safety reasons drivers must keep to the left of the of the solid white line immediately prior to the
pit entry when they are entering the pits.
16.3 Except in the cases of force majeure (accepted as such by the Stewards), the crossing by any part
of the car, in any direction, of the painted area between the pit entry and the track, by a driver who,
in the opinion of the Stewards, had committed to entering the pit lane is prohibited.
16.4 The dotted white line at the Pit Entry and at the Pit Exit identify the track edge line. (red arrows in
the pictures above). No part of the car may cross this line
16.5 For safety reasons drivers must keep to the right of the of the solid white line after the pit entry
when they are entering the pits.
17) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
17.1 Indicated by white boards with a red letter “F” or a red fire extinguisher image attached to the debris
fences.
18) Places where drivers may leave the track
18.1 Indicated by white and green panels displaying a man running, attached to the debris fences.
18.2 Additionally, drivers may leave the track at all vehicle openings indicated by fluorescent orange
panels on the barriers.
19) Places to remove cars from the track
19.1 Indicated by fluorescent orange panels on the barriers.
19.2 Should a car stop on the track during a session, the driver must keep all of their protective clothing
(Helmet, Gloves, etc) on until they have returned to their garage.
20) Removing cars from the grid
20.1 Through the gates in the pit wall, the first located adjacent to grid position 1, the second adjacent to
grid position 13 and the third adjacent to grid position 24.
21) Car number light panels for the start
21.1 On the left-hand side of the grid.
22) Post-race parc fermé
22.1 All cars must enter the pit lane and, with the exception of the first three (3), should be driven directly
to the weighing area at the pit entry.
22.2 The first three (3) cars must follow the post-race procedure which will be distributed prior to the start
of the race.
23) Any other business
Niels Wittich
FIA Formula One Race Director