2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 26
To The Team Manager, Date 02 May 2025
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 19:08
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 21) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 1 - Max Verstappen
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 16:54
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Car 1 exceeded the time limit between the Safety Car lines.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 1, document 10).
Decision Reprimand to the team.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 1 (Max Verstappen), the team
representative and reviewed video, timing, telemetry and in-car video evidence and
determined as follows:
Car 1 was around 6 seconds above the required minimum time between Safety Car
Lines 1 and 2 for one lap in SQ2, but complied with the requirement in all other laps.
Telemetry showed that the driver was driving with a constant speed throughout the lap
without any other cars around as if he was managing the delta at approx. 6 seconds
off the relevant number.
During the hearing the team stated that due to a false programming in the car the
delta time displayed in the car had an offset of 6 seconds and whilst the driver was
managing the delta displayed he was constantly approx. 6 seconds above the
minimum time. The team identified the problem by the end of the first cool-down lap
and immediately instructed the driver to manage his speed in a way that he would be
min. 6 seconds below the delta time displayed in the car, which he did in all following
laps. This was confirmed by the telemetry.
The Stewards acknowledge that, whilst there has been a breach of the regulations,
VER did not drive “unnecessarily slowly” based on the information he had in the car
and did not impede any other cars or create any dangerous situation and therefore
determine that a penalty for the driver is not warranted. However, a Reprimand to the
team is issued as they are responsible for ensuring that correct timing information is
displayed in the car.
It is worth noting that in different circumstances a more severe penalty might be
applied for a similar infringement.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards