2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 64
To The Team Manager, Date 15 June 2025
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 52 & 53)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 31 - Esteban Ocon
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 15:29
Session Race
Fact Alleged erratic driving in the pit exit road.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 e) of the International Sporting
Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 31 (Esteban Ocon), the driver of Car 55
(Carlos Sainz), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry and in-car video evidence.
During a Safety Car period Car 31 was in the pit exit road with Car 55 following some
distance behind. As Car 31 approached turn 2 (still inside the pit exit road), it slowed
and Car 55 nearly collided with the rear of Car 31 and had to take evasive action by
driving onto the grass.
The driver of Car 55 said that he was taken by surprise by more aggressive braking
by Car 31 than he had expected. The driver of Car 31 explained that he braked where
he did because he heard an audible warning of a double yellow zone and a double
yellow delta warning appeared on his wheel. Positioning data confirmed that the area
between turns 1 and 2 was a double yellow sector.
In the circumstances we were satisfied that Car 31 was legitimately reducing speed
to comply with the double yellow delta and therefore the driver’s actions were not
erratic or potentially dangerous and he was not driving unnecessarily slowly.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Enrique Bernoldi
Marcel Demers
The Stewards