2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 22
To The Team Manager, Date 23 May 2025
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 19:13
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 87 - Oliver Bearman
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 17:19
Session Practice 2
Fact Car 87 overtook Car 55 under red flag.
InfringementBreach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.4.1 b) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Drop of 10 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
2 penalty points (total of 4 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 87 (Oliver Bearman), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team radio and in-
car video evidence and determined that Car 87 overtook Car 55 at Turn 17.
Well prior to the overtake, the session had been red flagged. The team informed the
driver rather late, just before the overtake happened. However, it is clear from the
video footage that there was a light panel directly in front of the driver which showed
the red flag; and the dashboard also indicated the red flag well before the overtake
took place.
The regulations require the drivers to ‘immediately’ reduce speed and proceed slowly
back to their respective pits (Article 2.5.4.1 b)). The same regulations caution drivers
of the fact that in a red flag situation, ‘overtaking is forbidden’ and that drivers should
‘remember that race and service vehicles may be on the track…’.
The driver claimed that he saw the red flags but decided not to slow down abruptly
because he felt that slowing down abruptly would have been more dangerous and that
what he did was a safer way of handling the situation.
We disagreed with his decision to not take steps to slow down sufficiently to avoid
overtaking another car and instead proceeding slowly back to the pits, as required.
The whole purpose of requiring drivers to slow down immediately is for safety – they
will not know what is in front of them or the reason for the red flag being shown. This
is particularly so in a track like Monaco.
In the circumstances, there is no mitigating factor for the fact that he overtook a car
under red flag and we therefore imposed a penalty of a 10 grid place drop for the
Race and 2 penalty points.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards