2025 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 27
To The Team Manager, Date 21 March 2025
Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 18:44
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 16 - Charles Leclerc
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 15:57
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Car 16 exceeded the time limit between the Safety Car lines.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 2, document 11).
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 16 (Charles Leclerc), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, and in-car video
evidence and determined as follows:
Both LEC and HAM commenced their preparation laps close to each other. HAM
followed LEC closely and LEC had STR ahead of him on a preparatory lap. LEC had
to wait for STR to commence his push lap and in the meantime, LEC was overtaken
by HAM on the orders of the team.
LEC at all times maintained a reasonable speed and ultimately sought to create a
reasonable gap behind HAM. All of this was done in an orderly fashion and no car
behind LEC was affected by this. Therefore, LEC did not impede other drivers and
gained no sporting advantage by his course of action.
The Stewards therefore determine that LEC did not drive “unnecessarily slowly”, and
that evidently the reason he was above the maximum time was due to his appropriate
actions and take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Gerd Ennser
Matthew Selley Pedro Lamy
Zheng Honghai
The Stewards