2025 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
11 - 13 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 17
To The Team Manager, Date 11 April 2025
Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 17:23
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 13) and
heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 22 - Yuki Tsunoda
Competitor Oracle Red Bull Racing
Time 15:03
Session Practice 1
Fact Car 22 overtook Car 23 in the Pit Lane.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5 d) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Reprimand (Driving). This is the driver’s first reprimand for the 2025 Season
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 22 (Yuki Tsunoda), Car 23 (Alex Albon),
the team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data and video
evidence.
The driver of Car 22 stated that he saw Car 23 leaving its garage and felt that if he
braked to avoid it, he could lock up and hit the rear of that car. Therefore he chose to
drive to the right to avoid a collision. The Stewards accept this explanation. However
having avoided a collision with Car 23, the driver of Car 22 should have fallen back
behind Car 23 instead of overtaking it.
It has been made clear, especially in recent events, that overtaking in the pit lane is
prohibited unless there are extraordinary circumstances and this situation is not
considered as such.
Accordingly a breach of the regulations has occurred and therefore as foreshadowed
in the decisions of the Stewards from the 2025 Japan Grand Prix, a sporting penalty
is imposed.
The Stewards also examined the manner of release of Car 23 and determine that it
was not released unsafely.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mazen Al Hilli
The Stewards