2025 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 28
To The Team Manager, Date 17 May 2025
BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 18:50
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 26) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 43 - Franco Colapinto
Competitor BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 16:17
Session Qualifying
Fact Entering fast lane in the pit lane before a re-start time was confirmed.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 17, document 4).
Decision Drop of 1 grid position for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 43 (Franco Colapinto), team
representative and reviewed video, team radio and in-car video evidence and
determined as follows:
The team representative stated that he gave the instruction for the car to creep out
but not be fully released. The driver misunderstood the instruction and entered the
fast lane before the re-start time was officially confirmed in breach of the Race
Director’s event notes. Once this was done, it was too late to reverse course and the
team instructed the driver to proceed down the pit lane.
The team argued that there was no sporting advantage gained in this case as there
was sufficient time remaining for other teams to perform their run plans as this was
the start of the session. The team representative and the driver apologised for the
inadvertent breach.
The Stewards consider that this breach was inadvertent but it did require a sporting
penalty to be imposed. However as the breach was unintentional and this did not
result in any sporting advantage, we decided to impose a one position grid penalty.
A similar breach in different circumstances, could entail a more severe sporting
penalty, in future.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Valerio Brizzolari
The Stewards