2025 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
04 - 06 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 38
To The Team Manager, Date 05 April 2025
Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 17:45
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 33 & 34)
and heard from the driver of Car 55 and team representatives, have considered the following matter
and determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 15:47
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 55 unnecessarily impeded Car 44 in turn 1.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), team representatives
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, team radio and in-car video
evidence.
Car 55 was on an in lap after having completed a push lap when Car 44 was starting
its push lap, and Car 44 had to move off track to avoid Car 55 in Turn 1.
The driver of Car 55 stated that he did not have any warning from the team, of the
approach of Car 44 on a push lap. He stated that he was caught completely by
surprise and because of the approach speed of Car 44, and the angle of his car, he
could not see Car 44 in his mirrors.
However notwithstanding the above, the team had ample warning that Car 44 was on
an out lap whilst Car 55 was on its push lap. Also, more than 8 seconds elapsed from
when it was obvious Car 44 was not going into the pits, and hence was going to start
a push lap, and when Car 55 could have taken appropriate action if the driver had
been warned by the team.
It is noted that the standard penalty guideline for this offence during Qualifying,
irrespective of whether it was the fault of the driver or the team, is a 3 grid position
penalty, and therefore the Stewards find that the standard penalty should be applied.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Pedro Lamy Kazuhiro Tsuge
The Stewards