2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 56
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2025
BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 19:00
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 49 & 50)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 15:14
Session Race
Fact Car 10 collided with Car 22 in Turn 10.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision Reprimand
This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 10 (Pierre Gasly), the driver of Car 22
(Yuki Tsunoda), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Car 10 collided with Car 22 at the exit of the tunnel approaching the braking zone for
Turn 10.
Car 10 suffered serious damage as a result and had to travel slowly back to the pits
and retire.
The driver of Car 10 and the team representative took the position that the driver of
Car 22 did not leave at least one car width between his own car and the edge of the
track (in breach of Appendix L Chp IV Rule 2) and that is what led to the crash.
They also suggested that Car 22 was moving while braking, having commenced
braking on the left hand side of the track after Turn 9 but moving to the right hand side
before Turn 10. They claimed that this contributed to the collision.
We reviewed the line taken by the driver of Car 22 on previous laps. Other than
marginal differences, the line taken was similar to the previous laps. So, he was not
defending a position ‘off-line’ as required for a breach of Appendix L – the
requirement for him to leave at least one car’s width did not apply.
Secondly, we did not consider that he was moving under braking to defend at a corner
(which is the other prohibition) but taking his normal racing line at the part of the track,
which goes from left to right.
So, in the circumstances, it appeared to us that the attempted overtake of Car 22, in
the Monaco circuit, on the approach to Turn 10 was ambitious and unlikely to
succeed. The driver of Car 10 ought to have exercised greater caution in attempting
such a move and should have anticipated Car 22 moving to the right, as had
happened in the previous laps.
We also checked the telemetry of Car 10 whose rear tyres locked slightly while
braking and that contributed to the incident as it reduced the braking efficiency of the
car.
We therefore considered that the driver of Car 10 was wholly or predominantly to
blame for the collision. We took into account the fact that there was no immediate and
obvious sporting consequence to Car 22 from the collision. Instead, it was Car 10
that was significantly impacted by the collision.
We therefore applied the Penalty guidelines where there was no immediate and
obvious sporting consequence and imposed a reprimand (driving) on the driver of
Car 10.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards