2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 42
To All Teams, All Officials Date 24 May 2025
Time 20:34
Title Race Director's Event Notes V2
Description Race Director's Event Notes V2
Enclosed 2025 Monaco Grand Prix Event Notes V2.pdf
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2025 M G P
ONACO RAND RIX
23 – 25 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director
To All Officials, All Teams Date 24 May 2025
EVENT NOTES V2
(Changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Laps during Qualifying and Reconnaissance Lap(s),
In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the
end qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers must
stay below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane
map.
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the practice session.
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Event, other than in exceptional circumstances accepted
as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second Safety Car
Line to the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the qualifying session, including in-
laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, may be
deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly. For the avoidance of doubt, this does not supersede
Article 33.4 and Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, which apply to the
entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents will normally be investigated
after the qualifying session or the race.
2) Parc Fermé
The Parc Fermé cameras must be always uncovered and operational during the Event.
3) Lapping during the Race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster driver past at the first
available opportunity.
The F1 marshaling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the
car about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he
is soon going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority.
When the faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to
the slower car (in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing
monitors) and the driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available
opportunity.
4) Article 55.15 SR
“In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point
at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or
impede the restart”.
1
5) ERS safety check after covers off
In accordance with the provisions of Article 40.2 k of the Sporting Regulations, as work required
by the Technical Delegate; Each morning, immediately after covers are removed when the cars
are under parc fermé conditions (Articles 40.7 & 40.8), all Teams must connect the umbilical to
their cars and start a telemetry data logging for the sole purpose of checking the car ERS safety
status.
Event Specific Instructions
6) FIA Outside Scales Times
Should the outside scales be set-up at the pit-lane entrance, these will be available for teams to
use at any time outside the curfew times and the Parc Fermé cover-up times, except for the 30
minutes preceding the start of the Qualifying session and if there are support competitions using
the pit lane.
While entering pit lane at the end of Free Practice sessions cars will not be allowed to stop
to use the outside scales.
7) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the relevant
and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of this
Index file (“2025 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 8 – 2025-05-12.xlsx”) and all relevant documents
can be found on the FIA SFTP site.
Competitors are hereby required to ensure compliance with these directives for the safe and
orderly conduct of the Event.
8) Curfew
Due to the unique logistical challenges presented by the Monaco GP the following concessions
will be made:
On the Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, for this event only, the curfew period will be reduced
by a period of three (3) hours for a maximum of six (6) operational personnel for the sole purpose
of tyre preparations post tyre fitting from the tyre supplier.
Teams must nominate the six operational personnel, informing the FIA in writing by email, no later
than the start of curfew on the appropriate day.
9) Pirelli Trackside Operations regarding personnel (Engineering/Fitting) for Monaco
9.1 To limit the number of personnel for Monaco, the following procedure is implemented.
• Only the Pirelli engineer will be present in the pit lane and garage for all practice sessions
and qualifying.
• All wear checking and tyre photography shall take place after the session at the Pirelli
fitting area. Each Competitor is responsible for delivery of the used sets to Pirelli in the usual
way to wear checking/stripping.
• For the race, each Competitor should have space to allow the usual wear checking during
the race after the pit stop. A space should be provided in the garage or behind in the teams
own area where Pirelli personnel can work.
9.2 Teams are kindly reminded that their maximum collaboration is expected to deliver free
practice tyres to the Pirelli fitting area in a timely manner.
2
10) Support Races team barrier placement and movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than (1) one meter from the garages.
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support
category activities.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than
15 minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
11) Practice starts
11.1 No practice starts may be carried out at pit exit.
11.2 Practice starts after each free practice will be done according to Article 38.3 of Sporting
Regulations.
11.3 If any free practice is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of
facilitating practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article 38.3 of the Sporting
Regulations, any car wishing to leave the pit lane must proceed down the pit lane without
undue delay and exit the pit lane without leaving a significant gap to the car ahead.
11.4 Practice starts during the reconnaissance laps:
Practice starts during the reconnaissance laps may be done in the pit exit road in the area of
the 100 meter brake marker board on the RHS.
Drivers doing a practice start must use the pit exit road and rejoin the track after turn1 without
crossing the white line separating the pit exit road from the track at any time.
Drivers not doing a practice start must cross the pit exit white line separating the pit exit road
from the track on the LHS, at the earliest oportunity after having left the pit lane, and use the
normal circuit through turn 1.
12) Article 34.8 SR
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the pit lane prior to the start or re-start of a free practice session,
qualifying session must form up in a line in the fast lane and leave in the order they got there (…)
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid
white line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this context crossing means that all of a
tyre should be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane
from the inner lane.
3
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that:
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is
safe to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane.
Thus, after the start or re-start of a free practice session, qualifying session, if there is a suitable
gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into the fast lane safely and
without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to do so.
Furthermore, it is noted that during a free practice session and qualifying session a car driving in
the inner lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended into the fast lane at
the earliest opportunity.
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that:
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in
exceptional circumstances.
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem.
13) Driving in the Pit Lane During the Race
This event is at a track where the pit lane is narrow.
For the safe and orderly conduct of this event, when released from their pit stop position during the
race, all cars so released shall be responsible for ensuring that they blend into the fast lane as
quickly as possible in a safe and orderly manner without unnecessarily impeding any car already
in the fast lane. If this requires the released car to slow down sufficiently to allow car(s) in the fast
lane to pass them, then that is what the released car should do.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this case a car will be considered to have entered the fast lane when
all parts of the car have crossed the line separating the fast lane from the inner lane.
14) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
14.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must
follow the procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
14.2 During the reconnaissance laps prior to the race drivers are allowed to cross the white line
separating the pit exit road from the circuit in the pit exit road.
15) Pit Lane Speed
The Pit Lane Speed limit detailed in Article 34.7 of the Sporting Regulations is hereby amended
to 60km/h for the duration of the event.
16) Stopping Qualifying Sessions
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, should any period of the qualifying session be
stopped with less than 60 seconds remaining, the Race Director with the agreement of the
Stewards may decide that the relevant period of the qualifying session will not be resumed, i.e. that
part of the competition will be stopped.
17) Post-Qualifying drivers weighing
Any driver who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed
through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned to their team’s
4
garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it
is recorded by the FIA.
Any driver who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the
Medical Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to
his team.
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their
cars without contact with any other person.
18) DRS during all free practice sessions and the race
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
The zone and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 18, 19, 1, 2
19) DRS during qualifying sessions
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 18, 19, 1
20) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges. During
Qualifying and the Race, each time a driver fails to negotiate with the track limits, this will result in
that lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.
21) Turn 10-11 Escape Road
If a car uses the escape road at Turn 10-11 (Chicane), the driver may re-join the track only when
the lights, operated the marshal on the spot, are turned to green.
22) Leaving the track and gaining an advantage Turn 10-11 during the race
22.1 Any car that cuts the chicane at Turn 10/Turn 11 and gains a position must return that position
before T12. Returning a position after turn 12 will not be considered a mitigating factor and
will be reported as such for subsequent investigation by the Stewards.
22.2 Any car that cuts the chicane at Turn 10/Turn 11 on their in lap for a pit stop and subsequently
gains a position after the pit stop as a result, will be reported for leaving the track and gaining
a lasting advantage.
23) Unsafe or Unknown ERS Status
If the status of the ERS changes to unsafe or unknown, the relevant team will be required to send
mechanics to the area in front of race control building at pit entry after the session. They will then
be picked up by car to bring them to their car.
24) Entering Fast Lane during all Practice Sessions
If the Free Practice Session or Qualifying Session is suspended, cars may only enter the Fast
Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the official messaging system.
25) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences.
26) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
27) Removing cars from the grid
Cars may be removed from the grid through the pit lane exit.
5
28) Race Suspension or Starting Procedure Suspended
In case of race suspension or starting procedure suspended, (except in case of Art 57.2 – stopping
on the grid), cars will be stopped in the fast lane with the first car stopped in the vicinity of the last
team garage.
29) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
30) Light panels:
30.1 In case of an incident, the yellow and double yellow light panel will be mirrored on the following
panels:
• Panel 5 will be mirrored on panel 4
• Panel 11 will be mirrored on panel 10
• Panel 12 will be mirrored on panels 10 and 11
• Panel 15 will be mirrored on panel 14
31) Changes to the Circuit
- Resurfacing between Turn 12 until Turn 3.
- Turn 1: painted flat section of the kerb behind temporary kerb at apex T1 omitted.
- Realign guardrail on the LHS of Turn 3
- Turn 4: painted flat section of kerb omitted.
- Turn 10/11: painted flat section of kerb before temporary kerb at apex T10 omitted.
Painted flat section of kerb from T10 apex kerb to T11 apex kerb omitted.
- Turn 12: painted flat section of kerb at apex T12 omitted.
- Turn 13: painted flat section of kerb before T13 apex temporary kerb omitted.
- Turn 14: painted flat section of kerb before and after T14 apex temporary kerb omitted.
- Turn 15: painted flat section of kerb at Apex T15 omitted.
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
6