2025 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 20
To The Team Manager, Date 16 May 2025
Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber
Time 20:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 5 - Gabriel Bortoleto
Competitor Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber
Time 17:53
Session Practice 2
Fact Car 5 allegedly overtook Car 14 under yellow flags at Turn 4.
InfringementAlleged breach / Breach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.5 b) of the International Sporting
Code.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 5 (Gabriel Bortoleto), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, team radio and in-car video
evidence and determined that Car 5 overtook Car 14 after Turn 4 between Marshal
Posts 4.2 and 4.3. Both marshal posts are relatively close to each other.
Prior to the overtake, the section of the track near Turn 4 was under double yellow
flags because of an incident on the track. At the time of the overtake, green flags
were clearly shown at Marshal Post 4.3 and the light panel ahead of that post.
However, based on the video and other evidence available, it was unclear if Marshal
Post 4.2 was also showing green flags when the overtake happened. The driver had
passed Marshal Post 4.2 when he overtook car 14.
The driver insisted that he saw green flags at both marshal posts (i.e. 4.2 and 4.3)
and the light panel when he decided to overtake.
As we had no available evidence that clearly contradicted his statements, we could
not establish that a breach had been committed. We therefore gave him the benefit of
the doubt and decided that no further action be taken.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Valerio Brizzolari
The Stewards