2025 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 April 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 2
To All Teams, All Officials Date 17 April 2025
Time 18:42
Title Race Director's Event Notes
Description Race Director's Event Notes
Enclosed 2025 Saudi Grand Prix Event Notes.pdf
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2025 S A G P
AUDI RABIAN RAND RIX
18 – 20 April 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director
To All Officials, All Teams Date 17 April 2025
EVENT NOTES
General Instructions
1) Observing yellow flags
1.1 Single waved: Drivers reduce their speed and be prepared to change direction. It must be
clear that a driver has reduced speed and, in order for this to be clear, a driver would be
expected to have braked earlier and/or discernibly reduced speed in the relevant marshalling
sector.
1.2 Double waved: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow marshalling sector must
reduce speed significantly and be prepared to change direction or stop. In order for the
stewards to be satisfied that any such driver has complied with these requirements it must be
clear that he has not attempted to set a meaningful lap time. Furthermore, during qualifying,
any driver in a double yellow sector will have that lap time cancelled.
1.3 Double Waved during VSC or SC: Any driver passing through a double waved yellow
marshalling sector during a VSC or SC, in addition to the requirements in 1.2 above, must
remain positive of the SECU delta time in the sector concerned.
1.4 In case of an incident, the yellow and double yellow light panel will be mirrored on the following
panels:
• Panel 4 mirrors panel 5
• Panel 15 mirrors panel 16
• Panel 18 mirrors panel 19
2) Laps during Qualifying and Reconnaissance Lap(s),
In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the
end of qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the race, drivers
must stay below the maximum time set by the FIA between the Safety Car lines shown on the pit
lane map.
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the first practice session.
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Event, other than in exceptional circumstances accepted
as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second Safety Car
Line to the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the end of the qualifying session,
including in-laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for the
race, may be deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly. For the avoidance of doubt, this does not
supersede Article 33.4 and Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations, which apply
to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as well. Incidents will normally be
investigated after the qualifying session or the race.
3) Parc Fermé
The Parc Fermé cameras must be always uncovered and operational during the Event.
1
4) Lapping during the Race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster driver past at the first
available opportunity.
The F1 marshaling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the
car about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he
is soon going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority.
When the faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to
the slower car (in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing
monitors) and the driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available
opportunity.
5) Article 55.15
“In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point
at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or
impede the restart”.
6) ERS safety check after covers off
In accordance with the provisions of Article 40.2 k of the Sporting Regulations, as work required
by the Technical Delegate; Each morning, immediately after covers are removed when the cars
are under parc fermé conditions (Articles 40.7 & 40.8), all Teams must connect the umbilical to
their cars and start a telemetry data logging for the sole purpose of checking the car ERS safety
status.
Event Specific Instructions
7) FIA Outside Scales Times
Should the outside scales be set-up at the pit-lane entrance, these will be available for teams to
use at any time outside the curfew times and the Parc Fermé cover-up times, except for the 30
minutes preceding the start of the Sprint Qualifying session or Qualifying session and if there are
support competitions using the pit lane.
8) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the relevant
and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of this
Index file (“2025 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 6 – 2025-04-15.xlsx”) and all relevant documents
can be found on the FIA SFTP site.
Competitors are hereby required to ensure compliance with these directives for the safe and
orderly conduct of the Event.
Erratum to “2025 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 6 – 2025-04-15.xlsx”: The current version of TD003
should read “TD003Q”.
9) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than (2) two meters from the garages.
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support
2
category activities.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than
15 minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
10) Practice starts
10.1 During free practice sessions and any time the pit exit is open for the race, practice starts
may only be carried out on the asphalt area on the LHS of the fast lane using one of the
painted grid boxes. For the avoidance of doubt, practice starts may not be carried out during
Qualifying Sessions.
10.2 Practice starts after each free practice will be done according to article 38.3 of Sporting
Regulations.
10.3 If any free practice is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of
facilitating practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article 38.3 of the Sporting
Regulations, any car wishing to leave the pit lane must proceed down the pit lane and the pit
exit road without undue delay and without leaving a significant gap to the car ahead.
11) Article 34.8 SR
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the pit lane prior to the start or re-start of a free practice session,
qualifying session must form up in a line in the fast lane and leave in the order they got there (…)
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid
white line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this context crossing means that all of a
tyre should be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane
from the inner lane.
3
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that:
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is
safe to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane.
Thus, after the start or re-start of a free practice session, qualifying session, if there is a suitable
gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into the fast lane safely and
without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to do so.
Furthermore, it is noted that during a free practice session and qualifying session a car driving in
the inner lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended into the fast lane at
the earliest opportunity.
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that:
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in
exceptional circumstances.
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem.
12) Driving in the Pit Lane During the Race
This event is at a track where the pit lane is narrow.
For the safe and orderly conduct of this event, when released from their pit stop position during the
race, all cars so released shall be responsible for ensuring that they blend into the fast lane as
quickly as possible in a safe and orderly manner without unnecessarily impeding any car already
in the fast lane. If this requires the released car to slow down sufficiently to allow car(s) in the fast
lane to pass them, then that is what the released car should do.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this case a car will be considered to have entered the fast lane when
all parts of the car have crossed the line separating the fast lane from the inner lane.
13) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
13.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must
follow the procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
13.2 For safety reasons drivers committed to entering the pit lane, must keep to the left of the white
line preceding the pit entry which starts approximately 1.5m after the DRS Activation 3 line,
as indicated in the picture
13.3 Pertaining to Chapter 4, Article 4 of Appendix L to the ISC any driver passing to the left
hand side of the pit entry after the safety car line 1 will be considered as entering the pit lane.
4
13.4 Except in a case of force majeure (accepted as such by the Stewards), the crossing by any
part of the tyre, in any direction, of the painted area between the pit entry and the track, by a
driver is prohibited.
13.5 During the reconnaissance laps prior to the race drivers are allowed to cross the white line
separating the pit exit road from the circuit in the pit exit road.
14) Stopping Qualifying Sessions
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, should any period of the qualifying session be
stopped with less than 90 seconds remaining, the race director with the agreement of the stewards
may decide that the relevant period of the qualifying session will not be resumed, i.e. that part of
the competition will be stopped.
15) Post-Qualifying drivers weighing
Any driver who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed
through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned to their team’s
garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it
is recorded by the FIA.
Any driver, who stops on the track during the sprint qualifying sessions or qualifying sessions and
is not required to visit the Medical Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight
recorded before returning to his team.
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their
cars without contact with any other person.
16) DRS during all free practice sessions and the race
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 13, 14, 15
b) DRS activation 2: 17, 18, 19, 20
c) DRS activation 3: 21, 22, 1, 2
17) DRS during qualifying sessions
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 13, 14, 15
b) DRS activation 2: 17, 18, 19, 20
c) DRS activation 3: 21, 22, 1
5
18) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges.
During Qualifying and the Race, each time a driver fails to negotiate with the track limits,
this will result in that lap time being invalidated by the Stewards.
19) Unsafe or Unknown ERS Status
If the status of the ERS changes to unsafe or unknown, the relevant team will be required to send
mechanics to the area in front of race control building after the session. They will then be picked
up by car to bring them to their car.
20) Entering Fast Lane during all Practice Sessions
If the Free Practice Session or Qualifying Session is suspended, cars may only enter the Fast
Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the official messaging system.
21) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences.
22) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
23) Removing cars from the grid
Cars may be removed from the grid through the gates adjacent to grid positions 1, 13 and 24.
24) Race Suspension
In case of race suspension, (except in case of art 57.2 – stopping on the grid), cars will be stopped
in the fast lane with the first car stopped near the pit exit lights.
25) Car number light panels for the start
On the left-hand side of the grid.
26) Changes to the Circuit
26.1 The pit entry and pit exit white lines are highlighted blue.
26.2 The safety car lines are highlighted blue.
26.3 Blue line behind the white line at the apex of turns 2, 5, 8, 9, 14, 17.
26.4 Blue line behind the white line at the exit of turns 8, 19, 23.
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
6