2025 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
11 - 13 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 34
To The Team Manager, Date 12 April 2025
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 22:24
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 28) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 12 - Kimi Antonelli
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 19:34
Session Qualifying
Fact Entering fast lane in the pit lane before a re-start time was confirmed.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 19, document 23).
Decision Drop of 1 grid position for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative, the Race Director and FIA Single
Seater Sporting Director and reviewed video, timing, team radio and in-car video
evidence. The drivers were excused from attending.
The team representative, Mr Shovlin, in evidence stated that he gave the instruction
for the cars to be released, in error, having misinterpreted the message posted on
page 3 of the Timing Screen, “estimated re-start time” to be a message advising the
actual re-start time. He argued that there was no sporting advantage gained in this
case as there was sufficient time remaining (11 minutes) for other teams to perform
their run plans.
It was also noted that the team’s Sporting Director, Mr Meadows, was not present at
the event and that normally he would be involved in the release process.
The FIA Single Seater Sporting Director stated that such a move could be a sporting
advantage in that it could enable a team to perform its run plan whereas other teams
may not be able to.
The Stewards agree with this view particularly where there are only a few minutes
remaining in the session.
The FIA Sporting Director argued that there needed to be a sporting penalty rather
than a team fine, otherwise in future teams would release their cars as soon as the
estimated re-start time was published. The Stewards agree with this view.
Mr Shovlin argued that it was possible to give a non sporting penalty if the Stewards
declared that it was not to be taken as a precedent but also stated that if a sporting
penalty was to be given, it should be mitigated.
The Stewards agreed with the view that this breach required a sporting penalty
however accept that the breach was unintentional and a genuine mistake by the team
for which Mr Shovlin apologised. We decide to impose a one position grid penalty. A
similar breach in different circumstances, could entail a more severe sporting penalty,
in future.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mazen Al Hilli
The Stewards