2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 29
To The Team Manager, Date 14 June 2025
Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber
Time 15:57
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 26) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 5 - Gabriel Bortoleto
Competitor Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber
Time 12:52
Session Practice 3
Fact Car 5 overtook Car 87 under red flag.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.4.1 b) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision No Further Action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 5 (Gabriel Bortoleto), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, telemetry and in-car
video evidence.
Car 5 (Borteletto) was on the back straight travelling at a speed of 325hph when the
red flag was first displayed. Car 87 (Bearman) was travelling slowly on the right side
of the track. Telemetry showed that within 0.6 seconds of the driver of Car 5 sighting
the first red flag light panel, he lifted completely off throttle and applied firm braking. At
that point Car 87 was only 57 metres ahead. The driver of Car 5 explained that the
speed delta between his Car and Car 87 was such that he could not have safely
reduced speed any quicker to avoid overtaking Car 87.
Having considered the mater extensively, the Stewards determined that the driver of
Car 5 did everything he could reasonably have been expected to do in the
circumstances. At the point where Car 5 overtook Car 87, the speed of Car 5 had
reduced to 196 kph and the driver was continuing to apply significant brake pressure.
We were satisfied that the overtaking of Car 87 was unavoidable in the
circumstances and for that reason determined to take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Enrique Bernoldi
Marcel Demers
The Stewards