2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 54
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2025
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 17:35
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 51) and
heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the
following:
No / Driver 87 - Oliver Bearman
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 14:18
Session Reconnaissance Laps
Fact Car 87 was released from the garage in an unsafe condition.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.14 c) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (MoneyGram Haas F1 Team) is fined €5,000.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 87 (Oliver Bearman) and
reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The team left a cooling fan attached to Car 87 when they released the car for the
reconnaissance lap.
A member of the pit crew had to run after the car and enter the fast lane to detach the
fan before the car was able to proceed further down the fast lane.
Due to the nature of the track, the cars were backed up and any danger was
mitigated by the quick action of the team. However, it is beyond doubt that the team
should not have released the car in that manner and it could have had an impact on
the safety of the driver and other drivers.
As this happened during the reconnaissance lap, we treated the infringement like an
infringement happening during free practice (see point 9 of the Penalty Guidelines).
We accordingly imposed a fine of €5,000 on the team.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards