2025 EMILIA ROMAGNA GRAND PRIX
16 - 18 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 16 May 2025
Time 10:58
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Cameron Kelleher
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Imola Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Update to multiple Rear Corner and Suspension
Performance - components resulting in improved flow
1 Rear Corner Revised Rear Corner
Flow Conditioning conditioning and overall increase in rear
aerodynamic load.
High Downforce Rear Wing resulting in an efficient
Circuit specific - increase in aerodynamic load with a more loaded
2 Rear Wing High Downforce Rear Wing
Drag Range mainplane and flap, suitable for high downforce
circuits.
In conjunction with the high downforce Rear Wing,
Circuit specific -
3 Beam Wing High Downforce Beam Wing a more loaded Beam Wing was developed to
Drag Range
efficiently increase aerodynamic load.
A small modification has been applied to the Front
Front
4 Reliability Modified Front Suspension Suspension aiming at increased clearance to other
Suspension
suspension members for improved reliability.

Car Presentation – Emilia-Romagna Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This update is not track specific and within the
standard development cycle. Geometrical changes
Performance -
1 Rear Corner Revised scoop geometry and winglet arrangement are small, nevertheless focused on improving
Local Load
specific flow features, returning local loading
benefits.
2 Rear Wing This rear wing cluster is carried over from last
Circuit specific - season and adds up to the pool of available
Higher downforce top and lower rear wing profiles
Drag Range downforce levels. Currently not the prime choice,
3 Beam Wing but covers possible lower grip conditions

Car Presentation – Imola Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
A re-optimisation of the inlet, surrounding
Coke/Engine Performance -
1 Revised radiator duct inlet and sidepod shape to suit geometry and stays to gain overall aerodynamic
Cover Local Load
efficiency.
Subtle change to better optimise the shape towards
Rear Performance -
2 Revised fairing around one suspension member the inboard region for a further aerodynamic
Suspension Local Load
efficiency gain.
Performance - Minor changes to tidy up and optimise the local
3 Rear Corner Revised wheel bodywork inlet and exit ducts
Local Load flow fields to gain aerodynamic efficiency

Car Presentation – 2025 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
All leg fairings reprofiled to improve aerodynamic
robustness in a variety of conditions - improving
Front Performance -
1 Reprofiled suspension fairings flow to the rear of the car and consequently floor
Suspension Flow Conditioning
load.
Redistribution of chordwise and spanwise front
wing load through element reprofiling, producing
Performance -
a change in upwash field behind the wing
2 Front Wing Reprofiled front wing elements.
Flow Conditioning resulting in improved onset flow to the rear of
the car.
Upper surface geometry change improves onset
Coke/Engine Circuit specific -
flow to the rear wing, gaining local load, whilst
3 Subtle change to engine cover shape.
Cover Cooling Range also improving engine cooling efficiency.

Car Presentation – Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Changes to the management of the flow around the
Performance - The local detail around the rear halo mounts has
1 Halo cockpit alter the load generated in that area as well
Local Load been revised with a reduced fin.
as affecting the flow behind this region.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - The main body of the floor has evolved slightly with
2 Floor Body floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load the fences and floor edge.
lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance -
3 Floor Fences The fences have revised curvature and local details. floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load
lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance - Small changes to the details of the floor edge wing
4 Floor Edge floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load and the main floor inboard of this.
lower surface and hence performance.
The revised shapes improve the flowfield under the
Performance -
5 Diffuser The shoulder of the diffuser has been updated. floor increasing the local load generated on the
Local Load
lower surface and hence performance.
This revised shape is developed alongside the floor
Coke/Engine Performance -
6 Change to the curvature of the coke. edge details to improve the performance of the
Cover Local Load
floor as above.
The reduction in aggression of the beam wing
Performance - The beam wing sections are reduced in incidence elements reduce downforce but also drag for an
7 Beam Wing
Drag reduction compared to the previous version. overall efficiency improvement at this rear wing
level.

Car Presentation – Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The front wing has been redesigned to redistribute
Performance –
1 Front wing Reprofiled front wing and flap the load across its elements and offer local load
Local load
gains across its operating range.
The rearward bodywork panel has been reprofiled
Coke/Engine Performance -
2 Reprofiled rear bodywork panel to improve the flowfield delivery at the rear of the
Cover Flow Conditioning
car and gain efficient load.
w
Car Presentation – 2025 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
The new front floor contraction shape facilitates a
Performance - cleaner flow delivery to the rear end of the car,
1 Floor Body Front floor contraction shape modified
Local Load resulting in higher energy extraction from the floor
and, consequently, enhanced performance.
This new floor edge works in conjunction with the
Performance -
2 Floor Edge Slimmer floor edge front floor contraction to ensure a cleaner flow
Flow Conditioning
delivery to the rear.
The altered incoming flow necessitates a new
Performance - expansion rate for the diffuser. The updated floor
3 Diffuser Expansion rate modified
Local Load package delivers higher performance across a wide
range of ride heights.
The lower element of the rear brake duct now
features a revised trim and shape, allowing for local
Performance -
4 Rear Corner Updated ancillaries and IB drum face shape load extraction and better control of the tire wake.
Local Load
Additional load is achieved through a revision of the
upper winglets, which now include more elements.
Together with the new top and bottom corner
Rear Performance - ancillaries also the lower suspension fairing in its
5 Lower suspension fairing shape
Suspension Flow Conditioning outer portion was updated to support the
surrounding changes.

Car Presentation – Emilia-Romagna Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The channels in the forward floor create local
The volume within the underfloor channels has been downforce, but also define the downstream flow
Performance -
1 Floor Body modified, with subsequent adjustments to the fence conditions for the rest of the floor. This update
Local Load
camber and floor edge winglet positions. increases local load without degrading this
downstream flow.
The shape of the bodywork undercut has been
developed to promote high energy flow towards
Coke/Engine Performance - The undercut shape of the sidepod has been
2 the back of the car and the floor edge wing.
Cover Flow Conditioning modified, and a chassis winglet added.
The chassis winglet helps to manage the airflow
reaching the rear wing.

Car Presentation – Emilia - Romagna
*Atlassian Williams Racing*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Emilia Romagna Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
No updates submitted for this event.