2025 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 14
To The Team Manager, Date 18 April 2025
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Time 18:39
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 11) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 30 - Liam Lawson
Competitor Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Time 16:51
Session Practice 1
Fact Car 30 entered the painted area between the pit entry and the track.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 13.4, document 2).
Decision Reprimand (Driving) This is the driver’s first reprimand for the 2025 season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 30 (Liam Lawson), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, team radio and in-car video
evidence and determined that Car 30 crossed the painted area between the pit entry
and the track for the second time during FP1.
It was made clear in the event notes that no part of the tyre must cross the line in any
direction.
There is no doubt that this prohibition was breached for a second time.
We checked the team radio and it appears that despite the notification that the
alleged breach was noted by Race Control at 16:48:30, the driver was not warned of
this.
There were at least 3 laps in between the first infringement and the second where the
team could have reminded the driver of the prohibition in the Race Director’s event
notes and it appears that they did not do so. This was confirmed by the team
representative during the hearing. He said that the team chose not to inform the
driver as he was on a push lap and the second infringement happened already before
they ultimately warned him when he returned to the garage.
Notwithstanding the team’s decision not to warn the driver, the driver ought to know
what is in the event notes and Lawson confirmed that he did know of the prohibition.
Although this was during Free Practice, the Race Director’s event notes were clear
and because this was a second infringement of a stated prohibition, we imposed a
reprimand (driving).
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Hasan Al Aldabi
The Stewards