2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 82
To The Team Manager, Date 04 May 2025
BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 20:38
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 73) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 10 - Pierre Gasly
Competitor BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 16:54
Session Race
Fact Car 10 failed to slow for a waved yellow flag.
InfringementBreach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.5 b) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 10 (Pierre Gasly), the team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing,
telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver did not slow down for the yellow flag and admitted in the hearing that he
neither saw a yellow flag nor any stopped car. However, looking at the footage
available, it is evident that the yellow flag was only shown from one marshal post and
was shown against a yellow background in a very quick part of the track. In addition to
that, there was no light panel in place at that point and therefore neither the team nor
the driver got any visual or audible warning. The car causing the yellow flag also was
not visible from the driver’s perspective as it was hidden behind an exit.
The Stewards consider all this as a unique scenario and, taking all these mitigating
circumstances into account, issue a Warning to the driver.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards