2025 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
14 - 16 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 47
To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Date 16 March 2025
Time 19:45
Title Decision - Mercedes Right of Review
Description Decision - Mercedes Right of Review
Enclosed 01 AUS DOC 47 - Decision - Mercedes Right of Review.pdf
Garry Connelly Gerd Ennser
Tanja Geilhausen Matthew Selley
Enrique Bernoldi
The Stewards
2025 A G P
USTRALIAN RAND RIX
14 – 16 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 47
To The Team Manager, Date 16 March 2025
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 19:45
The Stewards have received in writing a petition from Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team for
them to review, in accordance with Article 14 of the FIA International Sporting Code, the Decision
in Document Number 43.
Deadline: The petition was received within the 96-hour deadline in accordance with Article 14.4.1
of the ISC.
Deposit: The petition was accompanied by the required deposit.
The Stewards, having examined the petition, summoned (Documents 44 and 45) and heard from
the team representatives and from the representative of Atlassian Williams Racing, determine the
following:
Decision 1: The petition of review is admissible.
Reason: All requirements were complied with.
Decision 2: There is a significant and relevant new element which was unavailable to the party
seeking the review at the time of the decision concerned.
Reason: The petitioner provided video from the roll hoop camera which was previously
unavailable. This video was relevant and significant in the opinion of the Stewards and was
unavailable at the time of the original decision (having only been downloaded from the Formula
One camera post-race).
Decision 3: Having examined the new video, plus additional video previously not available to the
Stewards and taken from the helicopter, the Stewards decide to reverse the previous Decision. As
a result the penalty on Car 12 in Document number 43 is removed and no further action is required.
Reason: It is clear that Car 12 did not cross into the fast lane until a significant distance down the
pit lane and only after the driver checked his mirror to confirm clearance with Car 27. The roll hoop
camera shows that he had sufficient room to safely pass the McLaren pits without risk to the
McLaren mechanics.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial
and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant
regulations, guidelines and evidence presented
Garry Connelly Gerd Ennser
Tanja Geilhausen Matthew Selley
Enrique Bernoldi
The Stewards