2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 38
To The Team Manager, Date 24 May 2025
Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 18:58
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 32 & 33)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 16:15
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 44 impeded Car 1 in Turn 3.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), the driver of Car 1
(Max Verstappen), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Car 44 was on a slow lap and off the racing line as he was approaching Turn 2. Car 1
was approaching Car 44 on a push lap.
The team first informed the driver of Car 44 that Car 1 was on a fast lap. Then they
sent another message saying that Car 1 was ‘slowing down’ when in fact Car 1 was
always on a push lap and was not ‘slowing down’ as suggested by the team.
This resulted in Car 44 speeding up and moving into the racing line of Car 1 entering
Turn 3.
Car 1 had to react to Car 44 appearing to move into the racing line. This meant that
Car 1 had to move off the usual racing line and the push lap had to be aborted by Car
1. We carefully examined the racing line taken by Car 1 in previous laps at the same
area and determined that Car 44 did in fact enter the racing line that Car 1 used in
previous push laps. This put it beyond doubt that Car 1 was impeded.
The driver of Car 44 expressed his displeasure at the incorrect message from the
team immediately after the incident.
During the hearing, the fact of the team’s incorrect message leading to the incident
was accepted by the driver of Car 44.
As with previous incidents of this nature where a driver has received inaccurate or
incomplete information resulting in a car impeding another, the fact that the radio
message was the cause of the impeding does not amount to a mitigating factor.
We therefore impose the standard penalty of a drop of 3 grid positions.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards