2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 28
To The Team Manager, Date 24 May 2025
BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 14:40
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 43 - Franco Colapinto
Competitor BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 13:28
Session Practice 3
Fact Car 43 overtook Car 18 under red flag.
InfringementAlleged breach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.4.1 b) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision No Further Action.
Reason The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, telemetry, video, timing,
team radio and in-car video evidence and determined that Car 43 overtook Car 18
after Turn 11 after the session was red flagged.
When the overtake happened after the red flag signal was given for the session, the
marshall’s post to the right of Car 43 was still showing a blue flag and the light panel
had displayed a blue signal and only subsequently switched to red.
When the red flag was ultimately shown on the panel, Car 43 took immediate steps to
slow down significantly and proceeded slowly back to its pit as required under Article
2.5.4.1 b). This was clearly reflected in the telemetry as well.
At the time that the light panel went red, the distance between the two cars was only
30 metres and there was a considerable speed delta between the two cars.
While it is correct that Car 43 overtook Car 18 after the red flag signal was shown, it
is clear that this was due to the momentum of the car and the relative distance. Car
43 took all reasonable steps to slow down immediately and appropriately when the red
flag was in fact displayed.
In the light of the above clear evidence of the steps taken by the driver of Car 43 to
slow down, we did not consider it necessary to summon the driver and we accordingly
took no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards