2025 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 49
To The Team Manager, Date 22 March 2025
BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 13:46
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 42 & 43)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 7 - Jack Doohan
Competitor BWT Alpine Formula 1 Team
Time 11:34
Session Sprint
Fact Collision between car 7 and car 5 in turn 14.
InfringementBreach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision 10 second time penalty imposed after the Sprint.
2 penalty points (total of 2 for the 12 month period).
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 7 (Jack Doohan), the driver of Car 5
(Gabriel Bortoleto), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling
system data, video and in-car video evidence and determined as follows.
DOO attempted to overtake BOR on the inside of turn 14 but locked up at the apex of
the corner and collided with BOR. DOO suggested that he was in control of the
overtake but the presence of the two Haas cars and the line they took compromised
his overtake attempt.
First, as the car attempting to overtake, the responsibility was on DOO to ensure that
it was done in a safe manner and in line with the regulations and the guidelines.
Secondly, applying the Driving Standards Guidelines, DOO did not have the right to
the corner at the apex and should have backed off – here, because of the speed at
which he approached the corner for the overtake and the resulting lockup and
understeer, a collision was caused, for which DOO was predominantly to blame.
We therefore imposed the standard 10 second penalty with two penalty points.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Gerd Ennser
Matthew Selley Pedro Lamy
Zheng Honghai
The Stewards