2025 TEST - BAHRAIN
26 - 28 February 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 1
To All Teams, All Officials Date 24 February 2025
Time 18:30
Title Race Director's Pre-Season Testing Notes
Description Race Director's Pre-Season Testing Notes
Enclosed 2025 Pre-Season Testing - Notes.pdf
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2025 P -S T
RE EASON ESTING
26 – 28 February 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director
To All Officials, All Teams Date 21 February 2024
Specific Instructions
1) Practice starts
1.1 Practice starts may only be carried out on the concrete apron area on the RHS of the fast lane at the
pit exit.
1.2 For reasons of safety and sporting equity, cars may not stop in the fast lane at any time the pit exit
is open without a justifiable reason (a practice start is not considered a justifiable reason).
1.3 Additionally, practice starts may be carried out on the track at the end of each test session. Any car
on the track when the chequered flag is shown may then complete another lap and, instead of
entering the pits, proceed to the grid and carry out a practice start.
1.4 All drivers carrying out a practice start must do so by pulling as far forward on the grid as possible
and, if necessary, should wait for others to carry out a start before getting to a grid position further
forward. Under no circumstances should a driver make a practice start if another car is still stationary
in front of him on the same side of the grid.
1.5 If any driver appears to be disregarding any of the above a red flag will be displayed and the
possibility to carry out any further starts will be immediately terminated.
2) Recovery
All recovery operations will be coordinated from Race Control. If a team wants to access their car
before it will be transported back to the paddock, they must get in contact with Race Control to ask
for a shuttle.
3) Team Manager Meetings
Tuesday at 15.00 in the briefing room.
Wednesday and Thursday a team managers meeting will be held online at 20.30.
Friday online meeting at 20.30 will be confirm one hour before. In case no team or race direction
have any subject to discuss it will be cancelled.
4) DRS Off manual command from RC
According to F1TM 05-24.
5) Race Control Communication
The Intercom system between Teams and Race Control will be operational during all test sessions.
Please make sure that at least one team member will be contactable.
1
6) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L to the ISC drivers must follow the
procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
7) DRS
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in that
particular zone are displaying yellow. The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS Activation 1: Panels 3, 4
b) DRS Activation 2: Panels 11, 12
c) DRS Activation 3: Panels 18, 1, 2
8) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges.
9) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences and barriers.
10) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
11) Removing cars from the grid
Through the gates in the pit wall adjacent to grid positions 2 and 18.
12) Changes to the Circuit
- Exit Turn 4 gravel bed has been extended.
- U-drains close to the racing line were closed off by cement and moved away from the white line
into the runoff areas.
- Repair of the bumps at the start line straight and Turn 9.
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2