2025 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 20
To The Team Manager, Date 18 April 2025
Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 21:35
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 17 & 18)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton
Competitor Scuderia Ferrari HP
Time 20:07
Fact Car 44 allegedly impeded Car 23 in Turn 17.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), the driver of Car 23
(Alexander Albon), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence and determined
that Car 44 unnecessarily impeded Car 23 during Practice 2 at Turn 17.
However, as agreed with the teams, unless the impeding during free practice was
such that it could be regarded as dangerous, there will be no penalty for such
impeding.
During the hearing, the driver of Car 23 felt that he had the car under control at all
times and while he was impeded, he did not consider the situation to be dangerous.
He had seen Car 44 in front of him during the corner before. However, he did not
expect Car 44 to be in the position on track that he was in and that shocked the driver
of Car 23 as he approached Turn 17 and had to take evasive action. While his
immediate reaction when the incident occurred was to say that it was dangerous,
having looked at it subsequently, he agreed that it was not.
We accordingly took no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Enrique Bernoldi Hasan Al Abdali
The Stewards