2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 20
To The Team Manager, Date 02 May 2025
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 15:36
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 15 & 16)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 31 - Esteban Ocon
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 13:04
Session Practice 1
Fact Impeding of Car 4 in Turn 17
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Warning to the driver.
The competitor (MoneyGram Haas F1 Team) is fined €7.500.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 31 (Esteban Ocon), the driver of Car 4
(Lando Norris), team representatives and reviewed video, team radio and in-car
video evidence.
The driver of Car 31 stated that he had not received adequate warning of the
approach of Car 4. He was being given technical instructions via team radio while
making way for another car before being warned about Car 4 approaching just
moments before the incident. The team representative confirmed that the team failed
to warn the driver in time.
The Stewards determine that the responsibility for the incident lies mainly with the
team as they failed to inform their driver about the incoming car. Therefore a financial
penalty is imposed on the team based on previous cases. However, notwithstanding
the very late warning and the high speed differential between both cars, the driver of
Car 31 contributed to the situation by moving off line extremely late instead of staying
on the racing line as the impeding had already happened and the late move increased
the potential of a dangerous crash. Therefore a Warning to the driver is issued.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards