2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 63
To The Team Manager, Date 15 June 2025
MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 20:16
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 51) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 87 - Oliver Bearman
Competitor MoneyGram Haas F1 Team
Time 15:14
Session Race
Fact Failure to follow Race Directors instructions.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision Driver: Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 87 (Oliver Bearman), team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The Event Notes instructed drivers that if they left the track at T13 they were required
to drive through the escape area and only re-enter after T14 after the end of an
orange line running parallel to the track after T14.
Car 87 was attempting to overtake Car 43 (Franco Colapinto) on the outside at T13.
He was unable to complete the overtake on track and drove through the run-off area
and when rejoining the right wheels of his car crossed the end of the orange line. He
fell in behind Car 43 so the relative positions of the cars was unchanged.
The driver of Car 87 explained that because of the trajectory of his car he had no
choice but to clip the end of the orange line. Had he taken a different line the angle at
which we would have rejoined would potentially have been unsafe for Car 43. He also
pointed out that the run-off area was dirty with limited grip. However, he accepted that
he could have reduced speed through the run-off area.
We determined that Car 87 could have done more to avoid running over the orange
line but he did not do so in an unsafe manner and gained no advantage. In the
cirucmstances we imposed a warning on the driver of Car 87.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Enrique Bernoldi
Marcel Demers
The Stewards