2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 59
To The Team Manager, Date 03 May 2025
Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 18:30
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 55) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 23 - Alexander Albon
Competitor Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 16:15
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 23 entered the fast lane with no suitable gap to blend in.
InfringementBreach of Article 34.8 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 11, document 33).
Decision Reprimand (Non-driving). This is the driver’s first reprimand of the season.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 23 (Alexander Albon), the team
representative and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The Stewards determine that at the time Car 23 entered the fast lane there was no
suitable gap to blend in. The car had not entered the fast lane with a wheel when
pulling out of the garage and therefore was not entitled to blend into the line of cars
that had already formed there. The Stewards acknowledge that the mechanic tried to
stop the driver from going, but the driver misinterpreted the signal from the mechanic
and pulled into the fast lane. It is also noted that the way Car 23 entered the fast lane
was not dangerous and therefore a reprimand to the driver is deemed appropriate.
As the incident occurred in the pit lane at very low speed and not while racing on
track, a non-driving reprimand is issued.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards