2025 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
11 - 13 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 18
To The Team Manager, Date 11 April 2025
Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 17:58
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 14 & 15)
and heard from the driver of Car 23 and team representative, have considered the following matter
and determine the following:
No / Driver 23 - Alexander Albon
Competitor Atlassian Williams Racing
Session Practice 1
Fact Car 23 unnecessarily impeded Car 46 in turn 13.
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The competitor (Atlassian Williams Racing) is fined €7,500.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 23 (Alexander Albon) and the team
representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, telemetry,
timing, team radio and in-car video evidence.
The driver stated that he had no warning of the approach of Car 46 and that it was
impossible to see its approach in his mirrors due to the speed of the approach and
the angle of the car, and the presence of a third car (Car 34 Felipe Drugovich).
The team representative stated that the engineers responsible for monitoring the
situation were “both distracted” and failed to provide the necessary warning.
In mitigation of penalty, the Stewards took into account the fact that Car 46 was on an
out lap and not a push lap however the situation could have been quite serious in view
of the high speed delta.
Based on previous cases, the above penalty is imposed on the competitor.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mazen Al Hilli
The Stewards