2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 02 May 2025
Time 09:55
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Miami Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – USA Miami Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
Performance - Re-optimisation of the fences to extract a small
1 Floor Fences Re-positioned floor fences
Local Load increase in load for the same flow stability.
Performance - To further optimise, more camber has been applied
2 Floor Edge New surfaces with increased camber locally
Local Load to the edge wing for more local load.

Car Presentation – 2025 Miami Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
A circuit specific flap update. Reduced camber aimed
Performance – local at reducing local downforce and drag along an
1 Rear wing Camber change to flap.
load/circuit specific efficiency slope appropriate for Miami.

Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This flap is lower loaded to reduce the amount of
Circuit specific -
1 Front Wing Front wing flap with less aggressive profiles. front downforce in proportion to the lower level
Balance Range
rear wings typically run at this track.
This beam wing has lower loading than the previous
Circuit specific - Rear wing with reduced front view area and less version and works in conjunction with the upper
2 Rear Wing
Drag Range aggressive profiles. wing for this event to achieve the required drag
range.
This is a less aggressive upper wing cascade with
Circuit specific -
3 Beam Wing Single element beam wing. lower load and drag than previous versions for use
Drag Range
at this circuit efficiency.

Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The front brake duct inlet has been re-designed for
Performance -
1 Front Corner Revised Front Brake Duct a local flow optimisation. The new geometry also
Flow Conditioning
offers a gain in brake cooling efficiency.
Members of the front suspension geometry have
Front Performance -
2 Re-profiled Front Suspension Geometry been re-profiled to optimise the flow quality
Suspension Flow Conditioning
around the updated front brake drum.

Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
*MoneyGram Haas F1 Team*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – JAPANESE Grand Prix
*ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min 20,
component for update version max 100 words)
The shorter chord beam wing works with the main rear wing
The new main beam wing element, which is an optional
Circuit Specific – assembly to efficiently reduce both downforce and drag. The
1 Beam Wing fit, has a shorter chord than the previous beam wing that
Drag Range use of this beam wing is a setup option that might be
ran with this main rear wing assembly.
suitable for the layout of the Miami circuit.

Car Presentation – Miami Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This update regarding the lower wishbone covers is
Front Performance -
1 Updated front suspension cover design aiming to improve local flow structures travelling all
Suspension Flow Conditioning
along the car.
