2025 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 41
To The Team Manager, Date 22 March 2025
Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 10:05
The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 25), summoned
(document 31) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
Competitor Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 13:30
Session Practice 1
Fact Failure to provide the video files recorded by the wireless forward and rearward
facing cameras in the specified timescale.
InfringementBreach of Articles 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code.
Decision The competitor (Atlassian Williams Racing) is fined €50,000 – with €40,000
suspended.
Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Atlassian Williams Racing and
the FIA Technical Delegate and determine as follows:
TD034L was issued on 19th March 2025. TD034L addressed the topic of bodywork
flexibility in the context of Articles 3.2.2 and 3.15.1 of the Formula One Technical
Regulations.
TD034L made it clear that:
‘Teams are responsible for ensuring that cameras are fitted with a suitably
formatted (FAT32 or exFAT format) and empty SD card at least 10 minutes prior to
the start of any session during which the cameras are to be fitted’.
It is undisputed by the team that it failed to do so. The reason for the failure was
apparently the team’s belief that the cameras would come fitted with SD cards
supplied by the FIA. They did not check if they did.
They apparently relied on an email from the FIA Techincal Delegate to one team
member that suggested that the teams could supply their own SD cards. The team
claimed that they assumed that the cameras that they installed on their cars were
fitted with the SD card supplied by the FIA.
They noticed during the middle of the session that there was a red flashing light in the
cameras and reported that to the Technical Delegate. However, they did not know
what the flashing light meant and in any event, it was too late to fit the SD card(s) by
then.
When the absence of the SD cards was discovered after the session, the team did
not report the fact of their failure to install the SD cards to the Technical Delegate.
For avoidance of doubt, there was no suggestion that the wings were not in
compliance with the bodywork flexibility requirements under the Technical
Regulations.
Nevertheless, given that TD034L was clear in placing the responsibility for ensuring
that the cameras were fitted with the empty SD card on the team, it was equally clear
that the team was not in compliance with the directions in TD034L.
We therefore find that the team has infringed Article 12.1.1i of the ISC and impose a
fine of €50,000 euros on the team of which €40,000 would be suspended until 31st
December 2025 subject to the team not committing a similar infringement.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Gerd Ennser
Matthew Selley Pedro Lamy
Zheng Honghai
The Stewards