2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director Document 10
To All Teams, All Officials Date 02 May 2025
Time 11:47
Title Race Director's Event Notes V2
Description Race Director's Event Notes V2
Enclosed 2025 Miami Grand Prix Event Notes V2.pdf
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
2025 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
2 – 4 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Race Director
To All Officials, All Teams Date 2 May 2025
EVENT NOTES V2
(changes in light blue)
General Instructions
1) Laps during Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying and Reconnaissance Lap(s),
In order to ensure that cars are not driven unnecessarily slowly on in laps during and after the
end of sprint qualifying, qualifying or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit is opened for
the sprint and the race, drivers must stay below the maximum time set by the FIA between the
Safety Car lines shown on the pit lane map.
Teams and Drivers will be informed of the maximum time after the practice session.
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Event, other than in exceptional circumstances accepted
as such by the Stewards, any driver that exceeds the maximum time from the Second Safety Car
Line to the First Safety Car Line on ANY lap during and after the end of the sprint qualifying,
qualifying session, including in-laps and out-laps or during reconnaissance laps when the pit exit
is opened for the sprint and the race, may be deemed to be going unnecessarily slowly. For the
avoidance of doubt, this does not supersede Article 33.4 and Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One
Sporting Regulations, which apply to the entire Circuit, furthermore this includes the pit lane as
well. Incidents will normally be investigated after the qualifying session or the race.
2) Parc Fermé
The Parc Fermé cameras must be always uncovered and operational during the Event.
3) Post-Sprint Parc Fermé
For the safe and orderly conduct of the Event, all Teams are requested to ensure they have three
(3) mechanics per car available within the Parc Fermé area, or at the gate to the grid in the case
of a car finishing in the top three, directly after the Sprint. As soon as a car is weighed and/or
checked, it will be released to the Team mechanics, it must be immediately put on the trolley boards
and returned to the Team garage. The car must stay on the trolley boards inside the garage with
the wheels fitted until it is notified via the official messaging system, using the message “F1 -
POST-SPRINT PARC FERME - WORK MAY COMMENCE AT <XX:XX>”, that all cars have been
weighed and/or checked and Parc Fermé Conditions are lifted. Work on all cars may only be started
following such notification via the official messaging system.
4) Lapping during the Sprint and Race
The ISC requires drivers who are caught by another car to allow the faster driver past at the first
available opportunity.
The F1 marshaling system will be set to give a pre-warning when the faster car is within 3.0s of the
car about to be lapped, this should be used by the team of the slower car to warn their driver he
is soon going to be lapped and that allowing the faster car through should be considered a priority.
When the faster car is within 1.2s of the car about to be lapped blue light panels will be shown to
the slower car (in addition to blue light panels, blue cockpit lights and a message on the timing
1
monitors) and the driver must allow the following driver to overtake at the first available
opportunity.
5) Article 55.15
“In order to avoid the likelihood of accidents before the safety car returns to the pits, from the point
at which the lights on the car are turned out drivers must proceed at a pace which involves no
erratic acceleration or braking nor any manoeuvre which is likely to endanger other drivers or
impede the restart”.
6) ERS safety check after covers off
In accordance with the provisions of Article 40.2 k of the Sporting Regulations, as work required
by the Technical Delegate; Each morning, immediately after covers are removed when the cars
are under parc fermé conditions (Articles 40.7 & 40.8), all Teams must connect the umbilical to
their cars and start a telemetry data logging for the sole purpose of checking the car ERS safety
status.
Event Specific Instructions
7) FIA Outside Scales Times
Should the outside scales be set-up at the pit-lane entrance, these will be available for teams to
use at any time outside the curfew times and the Parc Fermé cover-up times, except for the 30
minutes preceding the start of the Sprint Qualifying session or Qualifying session and if there are
support competitions using the pit lane. While entering pit lane at the end of FP cars will not
be allowed to stop to use the outside scales.
8) Specific Technical Procedures
Please note that the FIA have introduced an Appendix Index File which contains all the relevant
and active Appendix documents, Technical and Sporting Directives. The latest version of this
Index file (“2025 Formula 1 Appendix – iss 7 – 2025-04-30.xlsx”) and all relevant documents
can be found on the FIA SFTP site.
Competitors are hereby required to ensure compliance with these directives for the safe and
orderly conduct of the Event.
9) Support Races team barrier placement and Movements
Team barrier placement prior to and during all support category practice sessions and races: No
more than (4) four meters from the garages.
Please ensure that your pit stop gantry arms are moved back towards the garage during all support
category activities.
It is not permitted to push cars to the weighing area at any time a support category is in the pit lane.
Support Crews and Trolleys will be released into Pit Lane no earlier than 20 minutes prior to the
opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
Support Category competition vehicles will be released from the marshalling area no earlier than
15 minutes prior to the opening of Pit Exit for their respective sessions.
10) Practice starts
10.1 No practice starts may be carried out at pit exit.
10.2 Practice starts after each free practice will be done according to article 38.3 of Sporting
Regulations.
10.3 If the free practice is resumed with less than 2 minutes remaining, for the purpose of
2
facilitating practice starts on the grid as provided for in Article 38.3 of the Sporting
Regulations, any car wishing to leave the pit lane must proceed down the pit lane and the pit
exit road without undue delay and without leaving a significant gap to the car ahead.
11) Article 34.8 SR
(…) Any car(s) driven to the end of the pit lane prior to the start or re-start of the free practice
session, sprint qualifying or qualifying session must form up in a line in the fast lane and leave in
the order they got there (…)
It is noted that a car will be considered to be “in the fast lane” when a tyre has crossed the solid
white line separating the fast lane from the inner lane, in this context crossing means that all of a
tyre should be beyond the far side, with respect to the garages, of the line separating the fast lane
from the inner lane.
For the avoidance of doubt, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5b) states that:
Once a car has left its garage or pit stop position it should blend into the fast lane as soon as it is
safe to do so, and without unnecessarily impeding cars which are already in the fast lane.
Thus, after the start or re-start of a free practice session, sprint qualifying or qualifying session, if
there is a suitable gap in a queue of cars in the fast lane, such that a driver can blend into the fast
lane safely and without unnecessarily impeding cars already in the fast lane, they are free to do
so.
Furthermore, it is noted that during a free practice session, sprint qualifying or qualifying session
a car driving in the inner lane, parallel to the fast lane, will not be considered to have blended into
the fast lane at the earliest opportunity.
Additionally, ISC Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 5d) states that:
Cars in either the fast lane or working lane may not overtake other cars in the fast lane except in
exceptional circumstances.
In this context a “stopped car” is one which has an obvious mechanical problem.
12) Driving in the Pit Lane During the Sprint and the Race
This event is at a track where the pit lane is narrow.
For the safe and orderly conduct of this event, when released from their pit stop position during the
sprint and the race, all cars so released shall be responsible for ensuring that they blend into the
fast lane as quickly as possible in a safe and orderly manner without unnecessarily impeding any
car already in the fast lane. If this requires the released car to slow down sufficiently to allow car(s)
in the fast lane to pass them, then that is what the released car should do.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this case a car will be considered to have entered the fast lane when
all parts of the car have crossed the line separating the fast lane from the inner lane.
13) Lines at the Pit Entry and Pit Exit
13.1 In accordance with Chapter 4, Article 4 and 6 of Appendix L the ISC drivers must follow
the procedures at pit entry and pit exit.
13.2 Pertaining to Chapter 4, Article 4 of Appendix L to the ISC any driver passing to the right
hand side of the white line separating the track from the pit entry road at safety car line 1 will
be considered as entering the pit lane.
3
13.3 During the reconnaissance laps prior to the sprint and race drivers are allowed to cross the
white line separating the pit exit road from the circuit in the pit exit road.
13.4 For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, during any live session, team personnel are
not allowed in the pit lane beyond the white line crossing the pit lane near pit entry, as
indicated in the picture below.
14) Stopping Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying Sessions
For the safe and orderly conduct of the event, should any period of the sprint qualifying or qualifying
session be stopped with less than 90 seconds remaining, the race director with the agreement of
the stewards may decide that the relevant period of the sprint qualifying or qualifying session will
not be resumed, i.e. that part of the competition will be stopped.
15) Post Sprint Qualifying and Qualifying drivers weighing
Any driver who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after SQ1 and SQ2, Q1 and Q2
must proceed through the pit lane directly to the FIA scales immediately after they have returned
to their team’s garage. The drivers may not drink anything or do anything which increases their
weight before it is recorded by the FIA.
Any driver, who stops on the track during the sprint qualifying sessions or qualifying sessions and
is not required to visit the Medical Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight
recorded before returning to his team.
Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their
cars without contact with any other person.
16) DRS during free practice session and the sprint and race
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 10, 11, 12
b) DRS activation 2: 16, 17, 18
c) DRS activation 3: 20, 1, 2
17) DRS during sprint qualifying and qualifying sessions
DRS Detection will be automatically disabled in each individual zone if any of the light panels in
that zone are displaying yellow.
4
The zones and corresponding light panels are as follows:
a) DRS activation 1: 10, 11, 12
b) DRS activation 2: 16, 17, 18
c) DRS activation 3: 20, 1
18) Track Limits
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.3, the white lines define the track edges.
During Sprint Qualifying, Qualifying, the Sprint and the Race, each time a driver fails to
negotiate a lap within the track limits, this will result in that lap time being invalidated by
the Stewards.
19) Unsafe or Unknown ERS Status
If the status of the ERS changes to unsafe or unknown, the relevant team will be required to send
mechanics to the area in front of race control building at pit entry after the session. They will then
be picked up by car to bring them to their car.
20) Entering Fast Lane during all Practice Sessions
If the Free Practice Session, Sprint Qualifying or Qualifying Session is suspended, cars may only
enter the Fast Lane after the re-start time is confirmed via the official messaging system.
21) Fire extinguishers around the circuit
Indicated by white boards with a red fire extinguisher attached to the debris fences.
22) Places to remove cars from the track
Indicated by fluorescent orange panels/paintings on the barriers.
23) Removing cars from the grid
Cars may be removed from the grid through the gates adjacent to grid positions 10, 21 and after
the start line.
24) Sprint and Race Suspension
In case of sprint or race suspension, (except in case of art 57.2 – stopping on the grid), cars will
be stopped in the fast lane with the first car stopped near the pit exit lights.
25) Car number light panels for the start
On the right-hand side of the grid.
26) Light panels:
26.1 In case of an incident, the yellow and double yellow light panel will be mirrored on the following
panels:
• Panel 13 mirrors panel 14
• Panel 15 mirrors panel 16
27) Changes to the Circuit
27.1 Repositioned the white and added blue line at turn 6.
27.2 Manholes at Turns 3, 6 and between T8 and T9.
27.3 Realigned the wall at Turn 16 RHS.
Rui Marques
The FIA Formula One Race Director
5