2025 CHINESE GRAND PRIX
21 - 23 March 2025
From The Stewards Document 30
To The Team Manager, Date 21 March 2025
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 18:59
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 20) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 18 - Lance Stroll
Competitor Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Time 16:11
Session Sprint Qualifying
Fact Car 18 exceeded the time limit between the Safety Car lines.
InfringementAlleged breach of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 2, document 11).
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 18 (Lance Stroll), team representative
and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, telemetry and in-car
video evidence.
When STR commenced a preparation lap, he was overtaken by NOR who was
completing a push lap. STR followed NOR at a reasonable speed and then overtook
NOR. While STR continued to drive at a reasonable speed, he was overtaken by
NOR between turns 10 and 11. STR explained that his push lap would have been
compromised if he had not then slowed to create a reasonable gap behind NOR. He
explained that in the circumstances he considered the best course was to stay behind
NOR maintaining a reasonable distance. Having done so, STR exceeded the delta
time by approximately 6 seconds.
The evidence showed that STR stayed at or above speeds necessary to stay below
1:54.0 around the vast majority of the circuit. In this case STR’s ability to stay below
1:54.0 was compromised by NOR’s overtake. No car behind STR was affected
because the two cars following STR were on in-laps. Therefore, STR did not impede
other drivers and gained no sporting advantage. STR maintained a reasonable
distance of NOR. The Stewards therefore determine that STR did not drive
“unnecessarily slowly”, and that evidently the reason he was above the maximum time
was due to his appropriate actions and take no further action.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Gerd Ennser
Matthew Selley Pedro Lamy
Zheng Honghai
The Stewards