2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 38
To The Team Manager, Date 14 June 2025
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Time 18:43
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 32 & 33)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 6 - Isack Hadjar
Competitor Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Time 16:25
Session Qualifying
Fact Impeding Car 55 in turn 6
InfringementBreach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 6 (Isack Hadjar), the driver of Car 55
(Carlos Sainz), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, team radio and in-car video evidence.
Car 6 was on an in-lap and was caught by Car 55, on a push lap, at the entry to turn
6. Although Car 6 attempted to move off the racing line to leave space for Car 55, the
move was too late. The driver of Car 6 agreed that Car 55 was impeded. He
explained that he had earlier been told by his team that Car 55 was approaching on a
push lap but the team then told him that Car 55 had abandoned the lap. He said that
although he saw Car 55 in his mirrors, he relied upon what he had been told by his
team and when he realised the information was wrong he did his best to move out of
the way.
The standard penalty for this infringement during Qualifying in the Penalty Guidelines
is a 3 grid position penalty regardless of whether the incident was the fault of the
driver or the team.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Enrique Bernoldi
Marcel Demers
The Stewards