2025 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
04 - 06 April 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 9
To All Teams, All Officials Date 04 April 2025
Time 08:50
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Japanese Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
SCUDERIA FERRARI HP
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
Coke/Engine Subtle changes to reduce the losses incurred by the
1 Reliability Revision to central exit aspect ratio
Cover upper and lower rear wings for more cooling.
In preparation for upcoming races, a larger exit duct
2 Rear corner Reliability Enlarged exit duct with blanking options has been prepared with scope to blank primarily for
Suzuka
Gap between races allowed a revised wishbone
Rear Performance - Mild revision to lower wishbone shroud and fairing shroud better aligned to the local flow conditions to
3
Suspension Local Load into the rear wheel bodywork. be applied with attendant fairing into the brake
duct assembly.

Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
1 Floor Body Performance - Central floor re-shaped This geometry changes the floor volume in floor
Local Load proximity, aiming to improve stability when the car
is running at low ride-heights in high speed corners.

Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The airflow passing over the Halo passes towards
Performance - the back of the car and can influence the rear wing
1 Halo Reprofiled Halo shroud and interface to chassis.
Flow Conditioning and floor performance. This update improves the
flow quality downstream of the Halo.

Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min 20,
component for update version max 100 words)
The rearward most element of the front wing has an The updated flap geometry produces more local load, which
updated outboard geometry. The flap has a slightly allows us to efficiently rebalance more load from the rear
Performance –
1 Front Wing Flap longer chord length and features a more pronounced wing. The interaction of the subsequent flow with the front
Local Load
‘dip’ in its profile. The details of the connection to the suspension and brake duct furniture is different, which leads
endplate are also updated slightly. to improved control of the front wheel wake.
Working in conjunction with the new flap, the revisions to
Front Wing Performance – The new endplate has a reprofiled lower rear edge and a the endplate modify the flow leaving the front wing
2
Endplate Flow Conditioning slightly modified connection to the front wing flap. assembly and improve its interaction with the downstream
aero devices.

Car Presentation – Japanese Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Performance - Changes to several areas of the floor: floor fence, All changes together are aiming to have better flow
1 Floor Body
outboard floor and diffuser. field entering the underfloor and improving flow
Local Load
quality all along the floor.
Performance - Changes to the main plane geometry to increase
Changes to main plane.
2 Rear Wing
overall efficiency and improved cleanliness of the
Local Load
rear wing assembly.
Performance - Adding an upper element to the already existing The addition of the forward element leads to an
3 Beam Wing
beam wing main plane. efficient load increase as well as a positive response
Local Load
on characteristics.
