2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 73
To The Team Manager, Oracle Red Bull Racing Date 15 June 2025
Time 21:05
Title Decision - Red Bull - Protest against Car 63
Description Decision - Red Bull - Protest against Car 63
Enclosed CAN DOC 73 - Protest Decision.pdf
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Enrique Bernoldi
Marcel Demers
The Stewards
2025 C G P
ANADIAN RAND RIX
13 – 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 73
To The Team Manager, Date 15 June 2025
Oracle Red Bull Racing Time 21:05
Protest lodged by Oracle Red Bull Racing against
Car 63 for allegedly driving erratically under Safety Car and displaying unsportsmanlike
behaviour by complaining that Car 1 had overtaken under Safety Car conditions
Stewards’ Decision:
The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
Procedure
1. On June 15, 2025, following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the Canada
Grand Prix, Oracle Red Bull Racing (“Red Bull”) filed a Protest against Car 63 (George
Russell) entered by Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team (“Mercedes”). Red Bull claimed
in its protest that the driver of Car 63 had breached Article 55.5 of the FIA Formula 1
Sporting Regulations by braking unnecessarily and erratically behind the safety car. The
protest further alleged that the driver of Car 63 had breached Article 12.2.1m of the FIA
International Sporting Code by complaining that the driver of Car 1 had overtaken him
under safety car conditions. The parties were summoned and heard. The following persons
were present during the hearing:
On behalf of Red Bull: Stephen Knowles, Gianpiero Lambiase and the driver of Car 1, Max
Verstappen
On behalf of Mercedes: Ron Meadows, Andrew Shovlin and the driver of Car 63, George
Russell
On behalf of the FIA: Tim Malyon and Rui Marques
2. None of the parties objected to the composition of the panel of Stewards.
3. None of the parties requested the hearing of additional persons or requested conducting
further investigations.
Admissibility
4. The Stewards find that the Protest is admissible as all requirements of Article 13 of the FIA
International Sporting Code have been fulfilled.
5. The Hearing of the Protest then proceeded.
The Claims of Red Bull
6. Red Bull claimed that during a safety car deployment the driver of Car 63 had braked
unnecessarily along the back straight between turns 12 and 13 as a result of which Car 1,
which was following Car 63, overtook Car 63 and then dropped back behind Car 63 after
Car 63 accelerated.
7. Red Bull also alleged that by complaining over team radio that Car 1 had overtaken him
under safety car the driver of Car 63 had ‘displayed unsportsmanlike intent’.
8. The driver of Car 1 said that he was taken by surprise by Car 63’s sudden braking on the
straight and had no alternative but to overtake Car 63 momentarily.
9. Red Bull tendered telemetry showing the throttle and brake applications of each Car.
10. Red Bull suggested that it could be inferred from the fact that Car 63’s onboard showed the
driver looking in his mirrors before he braked that he knew Car 1 was immediately behind
and he braked to force Car to overtake to force an infringement by Car 1.
11. Red Bull suggested that the driver of Car 63 complained about the overtake on his team
radio knowing that it would be overheard by race control and in the hope that Car 1 would
be investigated.
12. They also suggested that it must have been obvious to the driver for Car 63 that the race
would end under safety car such that it was unnecessary for Car 63 to maintain heat in
tyres and brakes.
Mercedes’ arguments in defence:
13. The driver of Car 63 explained that:
- periodic braking is commonplace and to be expected during safety car deployments to
ensure that temperature is maintained in tyres and brakes;
- on the back straight he found himself catching the safety car. He pointed to in-car video
which showed him gesticulating with his hand which he said was to signal to the safety
car driver to speed up;
- he braked where he did for two reasons. First to ensure he kept a gap to the safety car.
Secondly, to keep temperature in his brakes and tyres;
- he looked in his mirrors before he braked to check whether Car 1 was immediately
behind and only braked after he saw that Car 1 was to the side;
- his telemetry showed that the brake pressure he applied was 30psi which he said was not
severe;
- the driver of Car 1 ought to have anticipated that he might apply brake to keep heat in his
brakes and tyres;
- it is not the responsibility of the Car ahead to look out for the following Car in any event;
- by pointing out to his team that Car 1 had overtaken he was not intending to provoke an
investigation into Car 1;
- he did not know that the race would definitely end under safety car.
14. Mercedes submitted that what the driver of Car 63 had said over team radio was nothing
other than factual. The team lodged no complaint with race control about the Car overtake
because the position was given back by Car 1.
15. Mercedes also tendered telemetry showing brake patterns of both Car 63 and Car 1 on
several laps under safety car which they said showed that the driver of Car 1 had been
braking on the same straight on other laps under the safety car – which they said showed
that what the driver of Car 63 was unremarkable.
Submissions of the FIA
16. Mr Malyon explained that the incident had been observed by the race control team and
assessed to not warrant being reported to the stewards. He said that periodic braking
under safety car is typical and to be expected. He said that for this reason, race control
always allows a degree of tolerance with respect to the 10 car length rule recognising that
there is a need for a reasonable degree of braking and acceleration.
Conclusions of the Stewards
17. Having regard to the evidence of Mr Malyon, we accept the driver of Car 63’s explanation
of the incident and we are satisfied that the driver of Car 63 did not drive erratically by
braking where he did or to the extent he did.
18. We are not satisfied that by simply reporting to his team that Car 1 had overtaken that he
engaged in unsportsmanlike conduct.
19. Even though the protest did not allege it, we are also satisfied that by braking where and
when he did and to the extent he did, the driver of Car 63 did not engage in
unsportsmanlike conduct.
Decision
20. The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
21. The Protest Deposit is forfeited.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial
and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant
regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Enrique Bernoldi Natalie Corsmit
Marcel Demers
The Stewards