2025 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX
18 - 20 April 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 7
To All Teams, All Officials Date 18 April 2025
Time 13:49
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The diffuser has been reshaped to improve overall
Performance -
1 Diffuser Reshaped Diffuser flow conditioning in this area, with the aim of
Flow Conditioning
gaining aerodynamic performance.
The revised Rear Brake Duct Winglet arrangement
Performance - results in an improvement in local flowfield around
2 Rear Corner New Rear Brake Duct Winglet arrangement
Flow Conditioning the rear corner translating to an increase in
aerodynamic efficiency.

Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Adapting to the peculiarities of the Jeddah circuit
Performance - Decambered / shorter chord top rear wing flap aerodynamic efficiency requirements, this option is
1 Rear Wing
Drag reduction element adding granularity in the available downforce level
options on the baseline rear wing
This top wing and lower beam wing options are
Performance –
2 Rear Wing Offloaded top rear wing carried-over components from last year’s
Drag reduction
low/medium downforce events, and provide a
larger step compared to the flap described above.
Performance -
3 Beam Wing Offloaded single element lower beam wing The lower beam wing can be combined with
Drag reduction
different top wing assemblies

Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
Demands of circuit in Jeddah with the forecast
Coke/Engine
1 Reliability Enlarged central exit. ambient temperatures require the use of a larger
Cover
topbody to reject the heat needed for cooling
Performance - A step to reduce the downforce at a given speed to
2 Beam Wing Reduced chord and camber lower or beam wing
Local Load observe the lift/drag requirements for this circuit.

Car Presentation – 2025 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Part of standard development to provide a wing
Circuit specific - Less aggressive rear wing flap to fit an existing
1 Rear Wing with less load and hence drag to suit the
Drag Range assembly.
characteristics of this circuit.

Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – 2025 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
Two carry-over Rear Wings from VF24 will be
Circuit specific - available on track. Both with reduced drag and load
1 Rear Wing Decambered Rear Wing assemblies
Drag Range level, achieved by raising and decambering the
profiles.
In order to achieve a correct balance level with the
Circuit specific - With the lower drag levels a relaxed FW Flap profile
2 Front Wing introduction of above-mentioned less loaded Rear
Balance Range is required.
Wings a less powerful FW Flap is available as well.

Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Shortening the chord of the flap results in less load
Circuit specific - The chord length of the front wing flap has been being generated by the front wing at a given flap
1 Front Wing
Balance Range reduced. angle, allowing the car to be balanced for the lower
rear wing levels expected at this circuit.
An efficient reduction in drag & downforce is
Circuit specific - achieved by de-cambering the upper wing and
2 Rear Wing Reduced camber & incidence wing elements.
Drag Range raising the leading edge, making it a good option for
this circuit to achieve the optimum lap time.
Further efficient drag reduction is achieved by
Circuit specific -
3 Beam Wing Reduced chord & incidence lower element. reducing the load generated by the lower element
Drag Range
of the beam wing.

Car Presentation – Saudia Arabia Grand Prix
*Atlassian Williams Racing*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Saudi Arabian Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The smaller front wing flap reduces the load
generated by the front wing to ensure that we can
Circuit specific -
Low balance front wing flap design
1 Front Wing
rebalance the low-drag rear wing introduced for
Balance Range
this circuit.
This change is aiming to improve flow
Performance -
Floor Body
2 characteristics around the rear floor, for efficient
Local Load Changes to central floor geometry
downforce gain.
Combined change of beam wing and rear wing
Circuit specific - endplate geometry to increase overall efficiency at
Beam Wing Newly designed beam wing and rear wing endplate.
3
Drag Range lower downforce levels.
Combined change of beam wing and rear wing
Rear Wing Circuit specific - endplate geometry to increase overall efficiency at
Newly designed beam wing and rear wing endplate.
4
Endplate Drag Range lower downforce levels.
This updated low drag RW assembly reduces load
Circuit specific -
Rear Wing efficiently. We can combine the main plane with
5
Drag Range Low drag rear wing assembly
several flaps to tune load and drag.
