2025 BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX
11 - 13 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 54
To The Team Manager, Date 13 April 2025
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 21:55
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 44) and
heard from the driver and team representatives Mr Shovlin and Mr Short (Head of Electronics) plus
Mr Pearson (FIA Software), have considered the following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 63 - George Russell
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 19:26
Session Race
Fact The driver used the DRS system when more than 1 second from the car in front.
InfringementBreach of Article 22.1 h) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations
Decision No penalty is applied.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), team
representatives and Mr Pearson and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data,
telemetry and team radio evidence.
The connection between the automated DRS activation system and the car failed due
to issues with a timing loop provided by an external party. Therefore the FIA
authorised manual activation of the DRS in accordance with Article 22.1 h). At the
time the driver was experiencing a brake-by-wire issue and other electronic issues.
He was at that time advised to use an auxiliary button in the cockpit which serves as
a back up radio button but also serves as a manual DRS activation button.
On the straight between turns 10 and 11 he tried to radio the team using this button
but instead accidentally activated the DRS. The DRS was activated for a distance of
37 metres on a straight of approximately 700 metres. Whilst he gained 0.02 seconds,
he gave up 0.28 seconds at the next corner to compensate. This was confirmed by
telemetry.
Accordingly whilst technically a breach occurred the Stewards decide that as there
was no sporting advantage gained, no penalty is imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Mazen Al Hilli
The Stewards