2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 69
To All Teams, All Officials Date 04 May 2025
Time 13:48
Title Procedures relating to Lighting Risk
Description Procedures relating to Lighting Risk
Enclosed MIA DOC 69 - Procedures relating to Lighting Risk.pdf
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards
2025 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
02 – 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 69
To All Officials, All Teams Date 04 May 2025
Time 13:48
Procedure for Race / Grid Procedure Suspension due to Lightning Risk
The Stewards, exercising their power given under Articles 11.9.2.a and 11.9.3.n of the FIA
International Sporting Code, decide the following:
In accordance with local public safety standards there is a possibility that the race can be
suspended due to risk of lightning strike at or around the circuit, in order to facilitate all
personnel to “shelter in place” in a relevant location. In such circumstance, for the safe and
orderly conduct of the event, the following procedures shall apply:
 The race will be suspended in accordance with Article 57 of the Sporting Regulations, all
cars must return to the pit lane and stop in the fast lane as described in Article 57.2.
 Once all cars have returned to the pit lane, Teams will be informed using the official
messaging system that cars must be pushed from the fast lane and returned to the
teams’ garages. Garage doors must remain open until otherwise instructed. For the
avoidance of doubt, any car which was in their garage at the time the race was
suspended, or that is moved from the fast lane to any other part of the pit lane without or
prior to such instruction being given will be arranged at the back of the line of cars before
the resumption in accordance with Article 57.3 or 57.5 respectively.
 Whilst the cars are in the teams’ garage the provisions of Article 57.4 shall apply. For the
avoidance of doubt, cars may be worked on once they have stopped in the fast lane,
whilst they are positioned in the teams’ garage, or once they have returned to the fast
lane prior to the resumption, but any such work is restricted to that listed in Articles
57.4b) i) to x) and must not impede the resumption of the race.
 Once the Race Director is satisfied it is safe to resume the race, and no less than 18
minutes prior to the expected re-start time, the re-start order will be published. At such
time, under the direct supervision and instruction of the FIA Technical Delegate or their
representative:
o Each Team will be instructed, in turn, to push their car(s) into the fast lane such
that cars may be arranged in the fast lane in accordance with the published re-
start order.
o Once all cars included in the re-start order are arranged in the fast lane, any car
not included in the re-start order will be released from their garage and may line
up at the back of the queue of cars in the fast lane in the order they get there.
 Once all cars are arranged in the fast lane or have been given the opportunity to join the
back of the queue in the fast lane, the resumption time will be announced using the
official messaging system. In all cases at least ten (10) minutes warning will be given.
From this point the race will be resumed in accordance with Article 58 of the Sporting
Regulations.
Further to the above, should it become necessary to enact such “shelter in place” procedures
whilst all cars are on the grid during the race starting procedure the following process shall
apply:
 The start will be delayed in accordance with Article 46 of the Sporting Regulations.
 Teams will be informed using the official messaging system that all cars, on the grid or at
the end of the pit lane, must be pushed from their location and returned to the teams’
garages. Garage doors must remain open until otherwise instructed.
 Once the Race Director is satisfied it is safe to resume the starting procedure, Teams will
be informed using the official messaging system that cars must be pushed from their
garage and returned to their allocated grid positions. Cars that were returned to their
garage from the end of the pit lane may be pushed back to the end of the pit lane and
must line up in the order they were in when the delayed start was announced.
 When all cars have been returned to the grid, or to the end of the pit lane, the starting
procedure will begin again at the ten (10) minute signal.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards