2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The Stewards Document 18
To The Team Manager, Date 13 June 2025
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 20:38
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 14) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 63 - George Russell
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 17:58
Session Practice 2
Fact The Driver failed to follow the Race Director’s Instruction regarding the use of the
escape road at turn 14.
InfringementBreach of Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code - Non-compliance with
Race Director’s Event Note (item 17.3, document 04).
Decision Driver: Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
The driver of Car 63 explained that he had just pitted for new tyres and at turn 13 he
lost the rear of the car and had no alternative but to leave the track to the left of the
orange kerb on the inside of turn 14. He said that he was focussed on keeping the
car off the wall and cut the orange line on the exit of turn 14. He said that he
immediately realised that in so doing he had not complied with the instruction and
apologised. No other cars were affected and the rejoining was not unsafe.
In the circumstances we determined that a Warning was appropriate, consistent with
earlier decisions for similar infringements in free practice at this circuit.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Matthew Selley
Natalie Corsmit Marcel Demers
The Stewards