2025 AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
14 - 16 March 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 7
To All Teams, All Officials Date 14 March 2025
Time 09:55
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Australian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Australian Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Revised Front Brake Duct Winglet geometry
Performance - resulting in improved flow conditioning, resulting in
1 Front Corner Revised Front Brake Duct Winglet
Flow Conditioning an improvement of overall aerodynamic
performance downstream.
Low cooling Front Brake Duct option converting
Circuit specific - reduced brake cooling demand into increased
2 Front Corner Lower Cooling Front Corner Scoop
Cooling Range aerodynamic performance achieved via improved
flow conditioning.
In order to improve both aerodynamic efficiency as
Circuit specific - well as overall load on the Rear Wing assembly, a
3 Beam Wing More loaded single element Beamwing
Drag Range more loaded single element Beamwing has been
designed.
In order to improve both aerodynamic efficiency as
Circuit specific - well as overall load on the Rear Wing assembly, a
4 Beam Wing More loaded double element Beamwing
Drag Range more loaded double element Beamwing has been
designed.

Car Presentation – 2025 Australian Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This new front suspension layout has unlocked
Switch from pushrod to pullrod, upper and lower
Front Performance - several development paths, focused on enhancing
1 wishbones geometry rearrangement to suite and
Suspension Flow Conditioning interactions with the front wing and maximizing
new front brake duct scoop topology
downstream flow quality
Benefiting from an improved onset flow quality,
More compact sidepod in both side and plan views. the sidepod design has been optimized and made
Sidepod Inlet / Performance -
2 Reoptimized cooling exits, including engine cover more compact for both improved interactions with
Engine cover Flow Conditioning
centre line louvres the floor / floor edge as well as the rear end of the
car
Capitalizing on improved upstream flow energy
Rear Wing / Performance - New top rear wing profiles and revised lower wing and new cooling exit topology, the rear wing has
3
Beam Wing Local Load design been deeply redesigned, offering a net gain on car
aerodynamic efficiency

Car Presentation – Australian Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
Performance - First element and curls to the endplate revised, Redistributed loadings across the elements seeking
1 Front Wing
Local Load other changes consequential to observe regulations improved load whilst maintain flow stability
A consequences of revising the element junctions,
Performance -
2 Nose Revised fairings at the element junctions the regulations require areas at specific sections,
Local Load
hence the profile was revised.
More local load has been extracted from the
Front Performance - Suspension fairings revised on the trackrod and
3 revised fairings via increased camber whilst
Suspension Local Load wishbones
maintaining flow stability
Revised shape improves pressure distribution given
Performance - Re-profiled surfaces to supplement the changes to
6 Floor Body other changes to the floor to extract more load and
Local Load the fences and edge wing
maintain flow stability
Changing the lateral positions allows more overall
Performance -
7 Floor Fences Repositioned laterally at the leading edges load to be attained from pressure distributions in
Local Load
the channels
Performance - Given changes upstream, more camber has been
8 Floor Edge New surfaces with increased camber locally
Local Load applied to the edge wing for more local load.
Subtle changes to components shrouded by the
Coke/Engine Mild revision to the sidepod shape to clear sidepod have resulted in a new shape giving
9 Reliability
Cover components. improved cooling flow with less downstream
detriment
Given the sidepod improvements cooling louvres at
Cooling
10 Cooling Reduced span for the medium levels of cooling most circuits will be smaller than last year with less
Louvres
downstream loss
Given bodywork changes upstream, the fairings
Rear Performance -
13 Revised fairings have been re-optimised gaining locally more load
Suspension Local Load
whilst maintaining flow stability
Less blockage behind the central topbody cooling
Performance -
15 Beam Wing Revised camber distribution across the span exit to reduce the louvre count and improve slightly
Local Load
the load extracted across the span
A revised mainplane tip geometry has extracted
Performance -
16 Rear Wing Revised curl geometry for the mainplane more local load by revising the pressure distribution
Local Load
across the span.
Rear Wing Performance - Tip geometry as a result of changes to the Consequential change from the tip geometry of the
17
Endplate Local Load mainplane mainplane.

Car Presentation – 2025 Australian Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
Performance - Improved flow quality to the radiator and rear of
1 Sidepod Inlet Vertical and horizontal inlet.
Flow Conditioning the floor, thus increasing floor load.
Increased local load which in turn increases mass
Performance -
2 Floor Body Change in the fence camber and floor tunnel profile. flow under the floor; flow quality to the diffuser
Local Load
improved which increases rear floor load.
Improved flow quality to the rear of the car and
Coke/Engine Performance -
3 Increased undercut sidepod. floor edge – which in turns improves rear floor
Cover Flow Conditioning
load.
Performance - Improved profiling of both beam wing elements
4 Beam Wing Improved section profiling.
Local Load resulting in better wing efficiency.
Front Increased suspension loading and front tyre wake
Performance -
5 Low rear track rod
Suspension control, improving flow to the floor.
Flow Conditioning
Reprofiling has cleaned up the tip flow structures,
Performance - Improved section profiling.
6
Rear Wing thus improving tip and wing efficiency without
Local Load
losing wing load.

Car Presentation – Australian Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The new longer nose improves the loading
Performance - Longer nose compared to 2024 connecting to the
1 Nose distribution of the front wing and interaction with
Local Load forward front wing element.
surrounding parts for better performance.
The modifications to the wing surfaces change the
Performance -
2 Front Wing Evolution of the profiles and outboard details. loading distribution and improve the performance
Local Load
of the wing across the different on track conditions.
The changes to the scoop geometry improve the
Performance - Scoop inlet and exit topology refined, lower cooling efficiency of the brake ducts. The deflector
3 Front Corner
Local Load deflector incidence modified. planview incidence is changed to suit the current
car characteristics.
The sidepod inlet has been revised to manage the
Performance - The sidepod inlet is now retracted below the upper
4 Sidepod Inlet flow to the rear of the car whilst maintaining
Flow Conditioning lip.
sufficient flow into the inlet to cool the car.
The undercut works in conjunction with the new
Coke/Engine Performance - Undercut depth has increased and the engine cover inlet. The exit of the bodywork is shaped to manage
5
Cover Local Load is narrower. the position of the internal cooling flow
downstream.
The cooling louvres are designed to position the
Cooling Performance -
6 Louvres cover a larger area compared to 2024. underbody cooling massflow in the most favourable
Louvres Flow Conditioning
position going rearwards over the car.
Combined changes to the floor improve the
Performance - flowfield under the floor increasing the local load
7 Floor Body Numerous subtle changes in the shape of the floor.
Local Load generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.
Combined changes to the floor improve the
Performance - Realignment and repositioning of the four floor flowfield under the floor increasing the local load
8 Floor Fences
Local Load fences. generated on the lower surface and hence
performance.
The revised rear suspension fairings have been
Rear Performance - Fairings have been refined with changes in section
9 evolved to work in conjunction with the changes to
Suspension Local Load and twist.
the flow at the back of the car.
The exit duct and vanes have been developed to
Performance -
10 Rear Corner Revised exit duct shape and vanes. increase the load generated by the rear corner
Local Load
through the operating envelope.
In combination with the rear wing the assembly
Performance -
11 Beam Wing Raised OB tips. now generates more efficient load, as usual there
Local Load
will be a sweep of wings to cover different circuits.
In combination with the beam wing the assembly
Performance -
12 Rear Wing Flap tips are swept further forwards. now generates more efficient load, as usual there
Local Load
will be a sweep of wings to cover different circuits.

Car Presentation – Bahrain Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The sidepod inlet has been reshaped for a local flow
Performance -
1 Sidepod Inlet Raised and reprofiled inlet optimisation whilst ensuring sufficient airflow is fed
Flow Conditioning
to the cooling system.
This new bodywork has been designed to improve
Coke/Engine Performance - the flow delivery at the rear of the car while also
2 Re-designed bodywork and cooling options
Cover Flow Conditioning offering sufficient cooling options to cover the
range of conditions seen throughout the season.
The floor has been optimised to improve efficient
and balanced load generation. This has been
Performance - Complete floor optimisation, including fences, floor
3 Floor Body achieved by delivering a cleaner loading of the floor
Local Load edges and diffuser
and better management of the underfloor
structures.
Redesign of the rear drum and its winglets to
Performance -
4 Rear Corner Revised design of the rear corner optimise the flowfield interaction with the floor and
Local Load
generate some efficient local load.
The rear wing endplates have been reprofiled to
Performance - improve the flowfield management, offering
5 Rear Wing Rear wing endplate reprofiled
Flow Conditioning efficient downforce performance gains in the
surrounding elements
The rear suspension legs/fairings have been
Rear Performance - optimised to the surrounding flowfield, improving
6 Update to rear suspension fairings
Suspension Flow Conditioning the local flow quality, while gaining efficient
performance.
w
Car Presentation – 2025 Australian Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
Front Wing Performance - Revised Front Wing Endplate The revised Endplate design allows an improved
Endplate Flow Conditioning flow conditioning, enabling better control of the
1
front wheel wake and its impact on the rest of the
car.
Front Wing Performance - New span-wise loading of the profiles The new design loads the FW in specific areas,
2 Flow Conditioning where the wake is less detrimental in terms of
overall car performance.
Sidepod Inlet Performance - More forward sidepod inlet The Sidepod Inlet is more forward compared to last
Drag reduction year, this allows a more efficient cooling
3
performance: the required cooling levels are
achieved at a lower drag level.
Floor Body Performance - Increased floor expansion The new floor increases the overall floor
4 Local Load performance, thanks to a higher diffuser expansion
and an optimized evolution of the floor geometry.
Floor Fences Performance - The new floor body required a complete re-design of The fences are optimized for the new floor design,
5 Local Load the floor fences. prioritizing higher mass-flow over local load
increase.
Floor Edge Performance - Revised floor edge Due to the increased mass-flow passing through the
6 Local Load floor inlet a higher side extraction was possible and
required a revision of the geometry.
Coke/Engine Performance - Increased coke undercut and narrow engine cover The new design increases the undercut below the
Cover Flow Conditioning sidepod inlet, extending all the way to the rear end
of the side body. This allows for a clean flow to feed
7
the rear end of the car. Furthermore, the engine
cover was shrunk, favouring undisturbed flow
impacting the rear wing.
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
The increased cut-out on the RWEP enhances load
Rear Wing Performance - efficiency by allowing the expanding flow
8 Increased cut-out
Endplate Drag reduction underneath the rear wing profiles to move freely
without the obstruction of the endplate.
Beam Wing Performance - Increased OB expansion The new car layout allows to efficiently increase the
9 Local Load loading of the lower beam, increasing its support to
the OB region of the upper RW.
Front Performance - The new span-wise loading of the FW required an
10 Suspension fairing optimization
Suspension Flow Conditioning optimization of the suspension fairing.
The scoop geometry was narrowed, reducing the
Performance -
11 Front Corner Updated scoop design frontal impact area and improving the flow
Flow Conditioning
impacting on the rest of the car.
The new floor and bodywork design imply different
Rear Performance - flow impacting on the rear suspensions: the new
12 Updated rear suspension with revised fairing design
Suspension Flow Conditioning fairings are designed to enhance efficiency and
condition the corner flow.
The revised design improves the cooling
13 Performance - performance of the rear corner and increases the
Rear Corner Revised internal and external design
Local Load generated local load, through a complete revision
of the ancillaries.

Car Presentation – Australian Grand Prix
Visa Cash App RB
Primary
Updated Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update
reason for
component previous version works (min 20, max 100 words)
update
Revised inlet geometry to optimise cooling and
Performance -
1 Sidepods Revised radiator inlet and sidepod curvature. make it more efficient, and at the same time
Flow Conditioning
improving the downforce provided.
The loading distribution across the front wing is
Performance -
2 Front Wing New mainplane elements, flap & endplates. modified to promote better quality flow to the rest
Flow Conditioning
of the car.
Suspension profiles optimised for the new aero
Front Other - Local flow
3 Suspension leg orientations have been modified. package, the aim being to make them more aero
Suspension alignment
friendly while maximizing the aero load

Car Presentation – AUSTRALIAN Grand Prix
*ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min 20,
component for update version max 100 words)
The higher cooling louvre panels simply allow more air mass
Compared to the launch car, there are new cooling
to flow through the cooling system, which keep the PU,
Circuit specific - louvre panels available if required. Compared to the
1 Cooling Louvres Gbox and hydraulic fluids in the correct temperature
Cooling Range cooling specification used in Bahrain, we have new panels
window to suit the conditions and nature of the Melbourne
that have more louvres and larger louvres.
circuit.
Like the higher cooling louvre panels, this addition works by
If a further step of cooling is required, then an optional
Coke/Engine Circuit specific - drawing more cooling air through the cooling system. It will
2 GF can be fitted to the trailing edge of the central cooling
Cover Cooling Range only be used in the event of very high ambient
exit.
temperatures.
Compared to the car that we raced at the end of the
These detailed geometric updates work with the overall
2024 season, the detail around the tips of the rearmost
Front Wing Performance - profiles of the new front wing elements to offer both direct
3 FWing elements and their connection to the endplate has
Endplate Flow Conditioning load from the front wing as well as generating flow
been updated. The profile of the endplate itself is also
structures that help deliver efficient load from the floor.
updated and now has a straighter profile.
All four elements of the front wing are updated These revised profiles work with the detailed changes to the
compared to the assembly that raced in Abu Dhabi at the intersection between the wing elements and the endplate to
Performance -
4 Front Wing end of the 2024 season. The relative size of the elements offer both direct load from the front wing as well as
Local Load
is updated, and the central section of the main element is generating flow structures that help deliver efficient load
lowered. from the floor.
Compared to the end-of-season FW46, the new FW47
The geometric changes to the main bodywork components
features a reprofiled sidepod undercut. The overall width
Coke/Engine Performance - improve local load performance but also supports the flow
5 of the sidepod is also increased. The central cooling exit is
Cover Flow Conditioning field around the rear wing elements and floor edge, which
lower and wider with the remainder of the engine cover
supports the generation of load in these components.
more tightly packaged around the internal components.

Car Presentation – Australian Grand Prix
KICK Sauber F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
A full Aerodynamic program for the 2025 car has
The redesign better compliments downstream flow
Coke/Engine Performance - resulted in all areas being revised and developed.
1 and improved management of losses in the
Cover Flow Conditioning Much of this work has centered around new
upstream flow.
directions in upper bodywork design.
The floor has been changed significantly over the
Performance -
2 Floor Body Floor redesign. winter to enable more consistent downforce
Flow Conditioning
delivery.
A new front wing and developments on the rear The changes work with the upper bodywork and
Performance -
3 Front Wing wing are also introduced at Race 01 to complement floor updates to optimise aerodynamic flow overall
Flow Conditioning
the above changes. the package.
A new front wing and developments on the rear The changes work with the upper bodywork and
Performance -
4 Rear Wing wing are also introduced at Race 01 to complement floor updates to optimise aerodynamic flow overall
Flow Conditioning
the above changes. the package.
A full new front suspension design has been
This work has been done primarily for improved
Performance - implemented on the C45, both external geometry
5 Front Corner handling and mechanical grip in the second year of
Mechanical Setup and associated kinematics and the front suspension
our front pull-rod design.
internals layout and components are new for 2025.
The cooling system layout has been revised to
improve both weight and efficiency of the cooling
systems, when combined with the 2025 cars new
The cooling system layout has been revised to
bodywork this provides a far more optimal solution
Performance - improve both weight and efficiency of the cooling
6 Rear Corner than that seen on the 2024 car. In line with this,
Mechanical Setup systems, together with revisions to the gearbox case
revisions to the gearbox case design and rear
design and rear suspension outboard components.
suspension outboard components have allowed
both an efficient weight reduction as well as
improved rear axle mechanical grip - particularly in
high-speed conditions. Similar weight reduction
measures for little compromise have been
successfully initiated in other areas of
the C45 chassis.
