2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 20
To All Teams, All Officials Date 14 June 2025
Time 09:39
Title Post-Qualifying Procedure
Description Post-Qualifying Procedure
Enclosed 2025 Canadian Grand Prix - Post-Qualifying Procedure.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 – 15 June 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
To All Officials, All Teams Date 14 June 2025
NOTE TO TEAMS: POST-QUALIFYING PROCEDURE
The Post-Qualifying procedure requires the top three (3) drivers to be interviewed once they have got out
of their cars. Should either of your drivers be among the top three (3) at the end of qualifying we would like
to ask for your co-operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• If they take the chequered flag at the end of Q3, the fastest three (3) drivers should return to the Pit
Lane where they will find the 1,2,3 boards in front of the podium towards Pit Exit.
• Other than the team mechanics (with cooling fans if necessary), officials, FIA pre-approved television
crews and photographers, no one else will be allowed in the designated area at this time (no driver
physios nor team PR personnel).
• Once out of their cars, the top three (3) Drivers will be weighed by the FIA. Each Driver must remain
fully attired until after they have been weighed (e.g: Helmet, Gloves, etc).
• After the Drivers have been weighed, the Post-Qualifying interviews will take place on the grid. The
interviewer will be selected by the Commercial Rights Holder.
• If any of the top three (3) drivers is in the Pit Lane at the end of the session, the team should ensure
that they go directly to the designated area once the other drivers have arrived there.
• At the end of the live interviews the drivers will be led to the backdrop for the Top 3 and Pirelli Award
photo opportunities.
• The top three (3) drivers will then be escorted by the FIA Media Delegate to the FIA Press Conference.
• At the end of the FIA Press Conference, the top three (3) drivers will be taken to the TV pen.
• Drivers eliminated in Q1 and Q2, drivers classified from 4th to 10th in Q3 and drivers who did not
participate in Q1 but are eligible to race must also attend the TV pen interview immediately after they
have been weighed by the FIA at the end of the last part of qualifying in which they participated.
• Any Driver from 4th and beyond who does not have a session for the written media organised after
Qualifying must be available for interviews at the written media zone adjacent to the TV pen once their
TV interviews have concluded.
For drivers outside of the top three (3) positions at the end of qualifying we would like to ask for your co-
operation in ensuring the procedure below is followed:
• Any drivers who finished participating in the qualifying sessions after Q1 and Q2 must proceed to the
FIA scales through the pit lane immediately after they have returned to the team’s garage. The drivers
may not drink anything or do anything which increases their weight before it is recorded by the FIA.
• Any driver, who stops on the track during the qualifying sessions and is not required to visit the Medical
Centre, must proceed to the FIA scales to get his weight recorded before returning to his team.
• Drivers who finish within the top 10 must proceed to the FIA scales immediately when out of their cars
without contact with any other person.
Please see the attached Qualifying - Parc Fermé Diagram.
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
2025 Canadian Grand Prix Parc Ferme - Qualifying
Photographers
access only
Grandstand
Podium
Backdrop
Remaining 2nd
cars parked
1st
at FIA
garage 3rd Security
Security
Pit Wall Photographer’s
Camera platform steps
and pit lane only
Top 3 interview on the grid
TV RF
Cameraman
Grid position 2
Version 1 – 12 June 2025