2025 MIAMI GRAND PRIX
02 - 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 84
To All Teams, All Officials Date 04 May 2025
Time 21:20
Title Decision - Red Bull - Protest against Car 63
Description Decision - Red Bull - Protest against Car 63
Enclosed MIA DOC 84 - Decision - Red Bull Protest of Car 63.pdf
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards
2025 M G P
IAMI RAND RIX
02 – 04 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 84
To The Team Manager, Date 04 May 2025
Oracle Red Bull Racing Time 21:20
Protest lodged by Oracle Red Bull Racing against
Car 63 for allegedly failing to slow for a single waved yellow flag.
Stewards’ Decision:
The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
Procedure
1. On May 4, 2025, following the publication of the Provisional Classification for the Miami
Grand Prix, Oracle Red Bull Racing (“Red Bull”) filed a Protest against Car 63 (George
Russell) entered by Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team (“Mercedes”). Red Bull claimed in
its protest that Car 63 had not complied with the regulations regarding a single yellow flag
(Article 26.1 a) of the FIA Formula 1 Sporting Regulations (“Sporting Regulations”)) by not
slowing down in a single yellow flag zone. The parties were summoned and heard. The
following persons were present during the hearing:
On behalf of Red Bull: Stephen Knowles, Gianpiero Lambiase
On behalf of Mercedes: Ron Meadows, George Russell
On behalf of the FIA: Olivier Hulot
2. None of the parties requested the hearing of additional persons or requested conducting
further investigations.
Admissibility
3. The Stewards find that the Protest is admissible as all requirements of Article 13 of the FIA
International Sporting Code have been fulfilled.
4. The Hearing of the Protest then proceeded.
The Claims of Red Bull
5. Red Bull claimed that, while Car 63 lifted the throttle when the yellow flag was displayed, it
did not reduce speed and therefore has not complied with the requirements of Article 26.1 a)
of the Sporting Regulations.
6. In their mind “discernibly reduced speed” as required by the regulations means passing the
yellow flag zone at an absolute speed which is lower than the speed before entering the
yellow flag zone.
7. They stated that the driver of Car 1 which was running directly behind Car 63 had done that.
Mercedes’ arguments in defence:
8. Mercedes argued that the common practice accepted by all teams and the FIA was and still
is that significantly lifting the throttle in a yellow flag zone is considered as an appropriate
reaction and they therefore complied with the relevant regulations.
9. The driver of Car 63 stated that he saw the single yellow flag and the stranded car next to the
track and therefore significantly lifted the throttle to react to the yellow flag.
10. The team further argued that the lift by Car 63 was more significant than what was observed
from other cars.
Conclusions of the Stewards
11. It was evident from the onboard footage as well as from telemetry that Car 63 lifted the
throttle when passing the yellow flag zone. The throttle was lifted by approx. 25 percent and
this resulted in a reduction of torque of approx. 30 percent.
12. Article 26.1. a) requires the driver to have “discernibly reduced speed” in a yellow flag zone
but does not specify if that means reducing the absolute speed or reducing the speed relative
to the regular racing speed in the relevant part of the track.
13. The speed of Car 63 in the yellow flag zone was considerably slower than the regular racing
speed, but the absolute speed while passing through the yellow flag zone increased slightly.
14. The Stewards determine that the requirement of Article 26.1 a) concerning the reduction of
speed in a yellow flag zone can only relate to a reduction relative to the regular racing speed
as the reduction of the absolute speed can, depending on the part of the track in which the
yellow flag is displayed, represent a compliance or a non-compliance with the regulations
whereas a reduction of the relative speed always signals that the driver has acknowledged
and respected the yellow flag. For instance, in a braking zone the absolute speed can be
reduced without necessarily complying with the regulations.
Decision
15. The Protest is rejected as it is not founded.
16. The Protest Deposit is forfeited.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in
accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial
and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant
regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Felix Holter Mathieu Remmerie
Derek Warwick Steve Pence
The Stewards