2025 SPANISH GRAND PRIX
30 May - 01 June 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 30 May 2025
Time 10:56
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Spanish Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Not track specific, this front wing introduction is
Update of chordwise and spanwise loading
Performance - phased with the update of the articles 3.15.4 and
1 Front Wing distribution of the wing elements, together with a
Local Load 3.15.5 of the technical regulations, effective from
revised endplate and outboard tip rolls
the Spanish Grand Prix onwards
The high downforce top rear wing, carried over
from 2024 and made available in Imola, received a
Circuit specific - Redesign of the outboard tip and roll on the high
2 Rear Wing local update to the outboard tip and roll
Drag Range downforce top rear wing
geometries. Local flow features are improved,
returning an efficient load increase.

Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
In order to comply with the revisions to the 2025 F1
First and second elements revised primarily in Technical Regulations applicable from the Spanish
Performance -
1 Front wing section. Flap elements and tips are consequential to GP, the front wing geometry has been revised to
Local Load
the first two elements. gain stiffness at minimal weight cost and then
iterated to pursue the load characteristics sought.

Car Presentation – 2025 Spanish Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Additional vane elements and flap chord increases
Increased chord floor edge wing with additional mass flow under forward floor, increasing vorticity
1 Floor Edge Performance – Local Load
vanes shed from the fence system, increasing floor load.
New fence profile has improved local pressure
Performance - Flow distribution and position of vorticity, improving both
2 Floor Fences Reprofiled inboard fence
Conditioning local and downstream load through better onset flow.
Circuit specific rear wing, with increased camber
aimed at gaining local downforce and drag along an
3 Rear Wing Performance - Local Load Reprofiled mainplane and flap elements
efficiency slope appropriate for Barcelona.

Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The revised tip detail improves the flowfield around
Revised tip detail between the front wing elements
Performance - the outboard end of the wing increasing the load
1 Front Wing and the endplate. Main wing sections also revised
Local Load generated in that area. Changes in section are for
for compliance with TD018H.
structural reasons.

Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The floor fences have been optimised locally to
Performance – improve the quality of the underfloor structures.
1 Floor Fences Reprofiled floor fences
Local load This results in an improved flow delivery to the
entire floor and generates local load.
Local and subtle modifications have been done to
Performance –
2 Floor Body Local changes to the shape of the floor the floor to maximise the effect of the updated
Local load
fences and improve the flowfield quality.

Car Presentation – 2025 Spanish Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
1 Front Wing Performance - Updated Front Wing Construction The 2025 Technical Regulations were updated on
Mechanical Setup April 7th to include more stringent FW flap
deflection requirements, effective from May 28th.
Consequently, a new FW construction was
necessary to comply with these new requisites.

Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The centre section of the wing is loaded further
relative to the outboard, modifying the
Performance - The elements of the mainplane are new, featuring a
1 Front Wing downstream flow conditions. This update also
Flow Conditioning lower central section.
addresses the increased FW stiffness requirements
for race 09 onwards.
The flow around the FW tips is highly three-
Front Wing Performance - The connection between the tips & the FWEP has dimensional. The revised detail around the tips
2
Endplate Flow Conditioning been updated. helps to reduce the losses created from this flow
field.
The nose tip drops down to meet the new FW
sections, whilst the raised lower surface helps to
Performance - The lower surface of the nose has been raised whilst
3 Nose increase the load generated by the centre section
Flow Conditioning the tip has been lowered.
of the wing, which in turn modifies the downstream
flow around the car.

Car Presentation – SPAIN Grand Prix
*ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min 20,
component for update version max 100 words)
The front wing assembly is updated to satisfy the new
The combined geometric and construction changes reduce
deflection regulations. In addition, we have taken the
the deflection to adhere to the latest regulations. The
Performance - opportunity to update the geometry of the rearward flap
1 Front Wing geometric updates alter the flow pattern off the front wing
Flow Conditioning and FWEP. The outboard section of the rearward flap has
and change the performance of both the front brake duct
a more backed-off profile, and the vertical section of the
furniture and the forward floor.
endplate has a revised camber geometry.
The revised exit geometry changes the flow rate through the
Circuit specific - There is a revised exit geometry for the rear brake duct,
2 Rear Corner brake duct and affects the brake cooling in a way that is
Cooling Range which constricts the flow through the brake duct.
suitable for the braking demands of Barcelona.
This update simply increases the flow through the radiators
A new optional cooling louvre panel is available for this and therefore increases the PU cooling at the cost of
Circuit specific -
3 Cooling Louvres event. It increases the number of large louvres to the downforce and drag. This will be our new maximum cooling
Cooling Range
maximum that the panel can accommodate. setup, which may be of use in Barcelona, but is more likely
to be needed later in the season.

Car Presentation – Spanish Grand Prix
KICK Sauber F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Performance - Modifications are targeted at improved flow field
Changes to several areas of the floor: Floor fence,
1 Floor Body
conditions for the underfloor from front to back,
Local Load
outboard floor edge and diffuser.
gaining some efficient and balanced downforce.
Sidepod surfaces have been updated to adapt to
Coke/Engine Performance -
the new floor developments and associated
2
Changes to engine cover design.
Cover Local Load
interactions, modifying floor top surface flow
conditions.
Local front wing end plate developments to
Small change to the transition between the
Performance -
improve outboard front wing performance and
3 Front Wing
mainplane and the front wing endplate.
Local Load
efficiency and also encourage better downstream
flow quality.
