2025 CANADIAN GRAND PRIX
13 - 15 June 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 8
To All Teams, All Officials Date 13 June 2025
Time 10:51
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Canadian Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Canada Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
A revised front wing geometry aiming at improved
aerodynamic performance across a wide range of
Performance -
1 Front Wing New Front Wing geometry attitudes, through a redesign of main elements as
Flow Conditioning
well as introduction of 'mermaid tails' to the front
wing endplate.
Updated version of the medium downforce rear
Circuit specific -
2 Rear Wing Medium Downforce Rear Wing wing assembly, enabling a more efficient coverage
Drag Range
of a larger drag range, suitable for multiple circuits.
A small modification to the front suspension
geometry which comes with an updated
Front Performance -
3 Updated Front Suspension Geometry aerodynamic surface, to accommodate the
Suspension Mechanical Setup
geometry change and reoptimize local flow
conditioning.

Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – R10 Canadian Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – 2025 Canadian Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Increased front brake duct inlet and exit area to cover
Circuit Specific – Cooling
1 Floor Corner Large brake duct inlet and exit off high brake duty for this circuit.
Range
Reduced flap chord and tweaked vanes, increases
Performance - Flow mass flow under forward floor and vorticity shed from
2 Floor Edge Reduced chord wing element
Conditioning the fence system, increasing floor load.

Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The larger exit area for the front brake duct
Circuit specific - increases the massflow through the front corner
1 Front Corner Front brake duct with larger exit.
Cooling Range increasing cooling for the characteristics of this
circuit.

Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The flap has been shortened and redesigned,
Circuit specific - generating less load, therefore offering the aero-
1 Front wing Reprofiled and shorter flap
Balance Range balance range that may be required for the track
characteristics.

Car Presentation – Canada Grand Prix
*MoneyGram Haas F1 Team*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
At lower rear wing levels, the car must be balanced
with reduced front downforce. This reduced-chord
Circuit specific - The most rearward element of the front flap features flap allows the aerodynamic balance to be lowered
1 Front Wing
Balance Range a shorter chord length. beyond the minimum range achievable by the
previous flap. It achieves this by reducing the load
generated by the front wing at a given flap angle.
The vorticity shed from the brake drum winglet
helps to manage the airflow around the tyre and
Performance - The shape of the lower winglet endplate has been
2 Rear Corner the diffuser. This update improves the quality and
Flow Conditioning revised.
consistency of the shed vortex, which in turn
increases rear downforce.

Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
*ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Canadian Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
No updates submitted for this event.