2025 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX
04 - 06 April 2025
From The Stewards Document 49
To The Team Manager, Date 06 April 2025
Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 17:25
The Stewards, having received a report from the Media Delegate, summoned (document 46) and
heard from the driver, Dr Messina of Med-Ex, and the team representative, have considered the
following matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Atlassian Williams Racing
Time 13:44
Session Pre-race
Fact The driver was not in place for the National Anthem at the specified time of 1344hrs.
InfringementBreach of Article 19.4 b) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations.
Decision The Driver Carlos Sainz is fined €20,000 of which €10,000 is suspended for a period
of 12 months subject to there being no further breach of the above Article 19.4.b)
during that period.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), the team
representative and Dr Messina of Med-Ex, and reviewed video evidence.
The Driver arrived at the National Anthem Position after the Anthem had commenced.
During the Drivers’ Briefing on Friday all drivers were reminded of the requirement to
be in position by the time prescribed in the regulations and the need to show respect
for the host country’s Anthem.
It is noted that the Penalty Guidelines prescribed in Appendix B of the FIA
International Sporting Code, list a penalty for this offence, of €60,000. However in
mitigation, the Driver stated that just prior to the Anthem, he experienced discomfort
due a stomach issue which delayed his appearance on the grid. This was verified by
Dr Messina of Med-Ex who confirmed the issue and stated he had provided
appropriate medication for the Driver.
Notwithstanding the above, displaying respect for the National Anthem is a high
priority and all parties need to consider every eventuality in planning to be in position
for the Anthem by the required time. Hence a penalty similar to that imposed for a
similar breach in Canada in 2024, is imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Pedro Lamy Kazuhiro Tsuge
The Stewards