2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The FIA Formula One Media Delegate Document 11
To All Teams, All Officials Date 23 May 2025
Time 11:28
Title Car Presentation Submissions
Description Car Presentation Submissions
Enclosed 2025 Monaco Grand Prix - Car Presentation Submissions.pdf
Roman De Lauw
The FIA Formula One Media Delegate
Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
McLaren Formula 1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
A medium-high Downforce Rear Wing sitting
between the medium and high downforce Rear
Circuit specific -
1 Rear Wing Medium-High Downforce Rear Wing Wing assemblies has been made available for this
Drag Range
track, featuring an efficient reduction in Drag
compared to the high downforce wing.
In order to ensure the high downforce Rear Wing
Circuit specific - assembly is suitable across multiple circuits, a
2 Beam Wing Medium-High Downforce Beam Wing
Drag Range Beamwing with medium-high level of load has been
designed alongside the aforementioned assembly.
In order to ensure the high downforce Rear Wing
Circuit specific - assembly is suitable across multiple circuits, a
3 Beam Wing Medium Downforce Beam Wing
Drag Range Beamwing with a medium level of load has been
designed alongside the aforementioned assembly.
In order to deal with the unique cornering
Front Performance -
4 Front Suspension Geometry Update challenges that this circuit brings, the front
Suspension Mechanical Setup
suspension geometry has been modified.
Given the significant brake cooling demand of this
Circuit specific - circuit, an option to increase brake cooling on the
5 Front Corner Increased Front Brake Cooling Option
Cooling Range front axle is available to deploy should this be
required.

Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
*SCUDERIA FERRARI HP*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Front
1 Monaco specific front suspension and corner
Suspension Modification to trackrod / suspension fairings and
modifications to allow for greater single wheel
Circuit specific FBD scoop clearance
angle necessary on this particular circuit layout
2 Front Corner
Introduction of more loaded Top and Lower Rear
3 Beam Wing
Wing main and flap profiles, carried over from
Circuit specific - Higher Downforce Top Rear Wing and Lower Rear
2024. This is track specific, with the aim to cover
Drag Range Wing designs
the low aerodynamic efficiency requirements of the
4 Rear Wing
Monaco street circuit.

Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
Red Bull Racing
The Monaco circuit rearwards aerodynamic load
Performance - Enlarged rear wing upper and beam, for camber and
1 Rear wing and the enlarged rear wing plus beam wing
Local Load chord
provides this at the lower car speeds encountered
Front To attain greater steering lock, the lower wishbone
2 Reliability Revised wishbone faring
Suspension fairing has been altered to clear the wheel
To attain the necessary cooling for the front brakes,
3 Front Corner Reliability Revised exit duct and gaitor a larger exit duct is available with a consequential
trim to the gaitor sealing the upper wishbone.

Car Presentation – 2025 Monaco Grand Prix
*Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team*
No updates submitted for this event.
Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
Aston Martin Aramco F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This is a higher loaded front wing flap to achieve
Circuit specific -
1 Front Wing Front wing flap with more aggressive profiles. the desired car setup to balance the more powerful
Balance Range
rear wing also introduced at this event.
This rear wing generates more load than the
Circuit specific - versions which have been used previously this
2 Rear Wing More aggressive rear wing with more surface area.
Drag Range season and is introduced due the characteristics of
this circuit.
The inlet and exit changes increase flow through
Circuit specific - The inlet is increased and the exit duct and the vanes the duct and hence cooling. The geometry has
3 Rear Corner
Cooling Range surrounding it have been revised. increased loading on the surfaces of the devices so
raising the local load generated in the area.

Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
This modification to the front suspension increases
Front Performance – New trackrod fairing and supports to suit Monaco
1 the road wheel angle. This modification is needed
Suspension Mechanical Setup racetrack
for the specific circuit characteristics.
The top rear wing is more loaded, delivering more
Circuit specific -
2 Rear Wing More loaded top rear wing main plane downforce and offering the best lap-time for the
Drag Range
specific circuit characteristics of Monaco
Similar to the rear wing, the beam wing features
Circuit specific - Rear beam wing designed to work with the top rear
3 Beam Wing more load with the objective of delivering the best
Drag Range wing update
lap-time around Monaco.
w
Car Presentation – 2025 Monaco Grand Prix
MONEYGRAM HAAS F1 TEAM
Updated Primary reason for Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min
component update version 20, max 100 words)
This circuit-specific rear wing uses the full
Performance - regulation box to maximize downforce, accepting
1 Rear Wing More cambered RW profile cluster
Local Load the associated drag increase, which is less
penalizing in Monaco compared to other circuits
This option is tailored to operate with the more
Performance -
Beam Wing
2 More cambered Lower Rear Wing Profiles aggressive rear wing design, continuing to aim for
Local Load
increased downforce.
A minor adjustment to the front trackrod was
Front Performance -
3 Front Trackrod position needed to meet the circuit-specific steering angle
Suspension Mechanical Setup
requirements.

Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
The steering angle required at Monaco increases
The shape of the cooling exit duct and trackrod ends the clearance requirements between suspension &
Circuit specific –
1 Front Corner has been adjusted to increase clearance for high brake duct components. This update addresses
Mechanical Setup
steer angles these clearance issues with a minimal change on
aerodynamic performance.
The highly cambered and high incidence elements
Circuit specific - increase the downforce generated by the beam
2 Beam Wing A new double-element high downforce beam wing.
Drag Range wing, whilst aerodynamically supporting the flow
attachment of the upper wing.
The camber of the upper wing profiles is increased
Circuit specific -
3 Rear Wing A new max downforce upper wing. to maximise the load generated. The tip shape
Drag Range
helps to improve the overall efficiency.

Car Presentation – MONACO Grand Prix
*ATLASSIAN WILLIAMS RACING*
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to previous Brief description on how the update works (min 20,
component for update version max 100 words)
Rear Wing Circuit specific - The rear wing for Monaco is a larger wing overall with a The larger upper rear wing delivers more downforce and
Drag Range high angle of attack. It is the 2024 RWing that we ran in drag than the medium downforce wing that we raced in, for
1 Monaco last year. example, Imola. The increase in downforce and drag is
achieved at an efficiency that is suitable to street circuits
such as Monaco.
Beam Wing Circuit specific - The beam wing that compliments the high downforce The larger beam wings and pylon wing work together to
Drag Range upper rear wing is larger than the previous version. It is generate more downforce and drag than the medium
also a 2024 geometry. There is also a Fwd RLW element downforce versions. They also support the flow to the upper
2
that is also a 2024 component, which runs with this high elements to ensure that they work efficiently and remain
downforce assembly. A small pylon wing completes this stable.
rear wing assembly.
Front Performance - There are some modifications to the front steering This minor mechanical adjustment allows a greater rotation
Suspension Mechanical Setup geometry that are Monaco specific. Although physically of the road wheels for a given rotation of the steering
new parts for 2025, they mimic the changes that we wheel. This update provides the steering lock required to
3
routinely make for this circuit. The modifications permit tackle the hairpin in Monaco.
additional steering at the road wheels. There are updated
boot surfaces to accommodate the additional steering.
The larger exit simply allows more air to flow through the
There is a larger exit available for the front brake duct. brake duct assembly and therefore provides more cooling to
Circuit specific -
4 Front Corner This increases the brake disc/caliper cooling, which is the brake components. This effectively compensates for the
Cooling Range
appropriate for Monaco. lower straight-line speed in Monaco and the increased brake
duty.

Car Presentation – Monaco Grand Prix
Stake F1 Team KICK Sauber
Updated Primary reason Geometric differences compared to Brief description on how the update works
component for update previous version (min 20, max 100 words)
Circuit specific - For this specific track and future events, we have
1 Rear Wing
High downforce rear wing assembly introduced a new high-downforce rear wing
Drag Range
assembly, which efficiently increases load.
Circuit specific - The new design offers an increased brake system
2 Front Corner
New front brake duct design cooling flow to accommodate the low average
Cooling Range
airspeed of this specific track.
