2025 MONACO GRAND PRIX
23 - 25 May 2025
From The Stewards Document 47
To The Team Manager, Date 25 May 2025
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 16:42
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 63 - George Russell
Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Time 16:07
Session Race
Fact Car 63 left the track at Turns 10-11 and gained a lasting advantage.
InfringementBreach of Article 33.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article
12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code - Non-compliance with Race Director’s
Event Note (item 22.1, document 42).
Decision Drive through penalty.
Reason The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, team radio
and in-car video evidence.
Car 63 left the track at Turn 10 and overtook Car 23. He did not give that position
back and maintained his track position.
It was clear from the radio message where he said that he would ‘take the penalty’
that the overtake was done deliberately as he felt that he was being held up by Car 23
driving erratically.
Anticipating that situations such as this might happen at this Monaco Grand Prix, all
the teams were informed before the race by the Race Director (at the Stewards
request) that the stewards would look carefully at a deliberate leaving of the track at
Turn 10 to overtake a car or a train of slow cars. That communication also made it
clear that the guideline penalty of 10 seconds may be insufficient for this deliberate
infringement and that the penalty applied may be a greater penalty than 10 seconds.
We therefore considered that Car 63’s deliberate infringement warranted a drive
through penalty and we so imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Nish Shetty Loïc Bacquelaine
Vitantonio Liuzzi Jean-François Calmes
The Stewards